---
title: "Re: Riak <-> RabbitMQ integration"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-04-20T13:20:43-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03109"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg03108"
author_name: "Kresten Krab Thorup"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-04-20T13:20:43-07:00
---


A very interesting hook would be to be able to send a message to a queue 
whenever siblings are created. With such a hook, you could have business logic 
somewhere trying to resolve the conflict. Unfortunately, that's not easy 
because siblings can be created at other places than PUT; namely when doing 
merge as part of handoff or as part of replication. Perhaps also other places 
that I have not heard of.

Along those lines, it would also be really nice if there was a hook to 
transform values before the get\\_fsm/riak\\_client returns it's value. Such a 
hook could do (a) uniform reconciliation/merge of siblings for certain simple 
types of data, and (b) perhaps be the place to possibly transform data into a 
document type acceptable by the client.

Kresten


On Apr 20, 2011, at 22:05 , Jon Brisbin wrote:

&gt; 
&gt; On Apr 20, 2011, at 3:01 PM, Mark Phillips wrote:
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Thanks, Jon. This is great stuff!
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; In case anyone is interested, I took the liberty of putting all the
&gt;&gt; Riak + RabbitMQ code in one section on the wiki:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; http://wiki.basho.com/Community-Developed-Libraries-and-Projects.html#Riak-and-RabbitMQ
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; (I debated calling it the "Riak and Jon Brisbin" section but that
&gt;&gt; would definitely be suboptimal SEO :)
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Feel free to add anything if I missed it.
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks!
&gt; 
&gt; FWIW- The rabbit\\_riak\\_queue project is just a POC (and a bit of a POS ;). I'd 
&gt; hate for someone to try to use it and have it explode on them. :)
&gt; 
&gt; jb
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Mark
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On Fri, Apr 15, 2011 at 4:20 PM, Jon Brisbin  wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt; I've been carrying this evented datastore torch for a while now and been
&gt;&gt;&gt; making pretty good progress in that direction. This evening I pushed a Riak
&gt;&gt;&gt; postcommit hook to my github that sends updated entries to RabbitMQ using
&gt;&gt;&gt; the Erlang AMQP client.
&gt;&gt;&gt; https://github.com/jbrisbin/riak-rabbitmq-commit-hooks
&gt;&gt;&gt; This is the other half of the equation for the custom exchange type I wrote
&gt;&gt;&gt; to push RabbitMQ messages into Riak.
&gt;&gt;&gt; https://github.com/jbrisbin/riak-exchange
&gt;&gt;&gt; This gets me one step closer to that evented datastore Nirvana I doubt is
&gt;&gt;&gt; actually possible--but you gotta have a dream, right? :)
&gt;&gt;&gt; Thanks!
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Jon Brisbin
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://jbrisbin.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; Twitter: @j\\_brisbin
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks!
&gt; 
&gt; Jon Brisbin
&gt; 
&gt; http://jbrisbin.com
&gt; Twitter: @j\\_brisbin
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com


\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

