---
title: "Re: Deleting items from search index increases disk usage"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-10-26T06:15:15-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg09065"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg09064"
author_name: "Jeremy Raymond"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-10-26T06:15:15-07:00
---


Yes I've read about the tombstoning, but figured writing the tombstone
would overwrite the existing item (at worst the data usage would stay
the same) vs writing something new (the data usage is growing).

In another list post [2] from John M he outlines the tombstone removal
behaviour. I've just re-read this. With the default settings for Riak,
to have the tombstones removed from the search index I'll need to read
the deleted items again (but not the actual items, I'd need to read
the item's index somehow)?

[2]:http://lists.basho.com/pipermail/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com/2011-October/006048.html

--
Jeremy


On Fri, Oct 26, 2012 at 8:40 AM, Vladimir Shapovalov
 wrote:
&gt; Hi Jeremy,
&gt;
&gt; As far I'm concerned, delete operation doesn't delete the data physically,
&gt; just mark it as deleted. I've encountered that problem a while ago and was
&gt; also surprised about that fact that the data grows instead of reduce.
&gt;
&gt; Cheers
&gt; Vladimir
&gt;
&gt; On Fri, Oct 26, 2012 at 2:26 PM, Jeremy Raymond  wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hello,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I had Riak search enabled on a bucket containing millions of items. I
&gt;&gt; no longer need these items to be searchable so I uninstalled search on
&gt;&gt; the bucket via search-cmd. I'm looking to free the space consumed by
&gt;&gt; the search index for this bucket. Following a previous post [1] on
&gt;&gt; this list I'm deleting the items from the search index by running
&gt;&gt; search:delete\\_docs/1. After getting through about 1 million items I'm
&gt;&gt; seeing a noticeable increase in disk usage across the 3 node cluster,
&gt;&gt; an increase of about 7GB per node.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Any ideas on why my disk usage would be increasing rather than
&gt;&gt; decreasing? The data in the cluster is static, the only activity is me
&gt;&gt; deleting the items from the search index.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I'm running riak 1.1.2 with leveldb as the backend.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; [1]:http://lists.basho.com/pipermail/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com/2011-September/005696.html
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; Jeremy
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

