---
title: "RE: Riak fails to start on ubuntu 11.10"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-12-19T05:28:44-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05992"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg05991"
author_name: "Ben Aviram"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-12-19T05:28:44-08:00
---


Thanks Jared, it worked after restarting the machine.
Thing is I already downgraded libssl to 0.9.8

Probably auto update did the damage.

From: Jared Morrow [mailto:ja...@basho.com]
Sent: Monday, December 19, 2011 2:56 PM
To: Ben Aviram
Cc: riak-users@lists.basho.com
Subject: Re: Riak fails to start on ubuntu 11.10

Ben,

Since we didn't build packages for Ubuntu 11.10 32bit, and instead just did 
64bit packages, I assume you are using the 32bit .deb from 
http://basho.com/resources/downloads/ In that case, that .deb was built 
using ubuntu 10.04 and you are probably running into a fairly common issue with 
a mismatch in libssl libraries. Ubuntu 11.10 was the first version that 
shipped without libssl version 0.9.8 which is needed by the erlang vm that 
ships with Riak. Your fix should be as easy as:

sudo apt-get install libssl0.9.8

Install that and try starting Riak again. If you are still having troubles, 
let us know.

Thanks,
Jared


On Mon, Dec 19, 2011 at 4:40 AM, Ben Aviram 
&gt; wrote:
Hi guys,

For no apparent reason I can't start my dev riak node(single node)- on riak 
1.0.2 ubuntu 32bit.

This is the error I'm getting:

/usr/lib/riak/lib/os\\_mon-2.2.6/priv/bin/memsup: Erlang has closed.
 Erlang has 
closed
 13:30:10.515 [error] Supervisor riak\\_kv\\_sup had child riak\\_kv\\_stat started 
with riak\\_kv\\_stat:start\\_link() at undefined exit with reason no match of right 
hand value 
{{error,eacces},parent,"/tmp/riak/slide-data/3937/1324.294210.513858"} in 
slide:fresh/2 in context start\\_error
13:30:10.584 [error] CRASH REPORT Process &lt;0.247.0&gt; with 0 neighbours crashed 
with reason: no match of right hand value 
{{error,eacces},parent,"/tmp/riak/slide-data/3937/1324.294210.513858"} in 
slide:fresh/2
13:30:10.630 [info] Application riak\\_kv exited with reason: 
{shutdown,{riak\\_kv\\_app,start,[normal,[]]}}
{"Kernel pid 
terminated",application\\_controller,"{application\\_start\\_failure,riak\\_kv,{shutdown,{riak\\_kv\\_app,start,[normal,[]]}}}"}

Thanks,
Ben

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

