---
title: "Re: C++ Riak client?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-04-09T09:13:15-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg02953"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg02952"
author_name: "Sean Cribbs"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-04-09T09:13:15-07:00
---


Assuming you encode your data properly and choose buckets/keys that are 
URL-safe, there's no reason you can't access it from both interfaces.

Sean Cribbs 
Developer Advocate
Basho Technologies, Inc.
http://basho.com/

On Apr 9, 2011, at 12:10 PM, Les Mikesell wrote:

&gt; On 4/9/11 10:47 AM, Sean Cribbs wrote:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Because it's being confused in this conversation, I think it merits
&gt;&gt; clarification -- the "protocol" that is used to talk to Riak and Google's
&gt;&gt; Protocol Buffers are NOT the same thing. Riak uses a simple length- and
&gt;&gt; message-code-prefixed binary protocol, in which the complex messages (ones 
&gt;&gt; that
&gt;&gt; have bodies and not just the message code) are serialized via Google's 
&gt;&gt; Protocol
&gt;&gt; Buffers. So, while we don't use the RPC facilities in Google's library, the
&gt;&gt; \\*serialization format\\* DOES use Protocol Buffers.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Sorry for the confusion, we'll work to make that clearer in the wiki.
&gt; 
&gt; Can you mix/match access to the same buckets/data with the PB and rest 
&gt; protocols if the values are json objects? For example if you have some 
&gt; high-volume data feeds, could you write with the more efficient PB but read 
&gt; with more generic rest clients? Or does all access to a bucket have to use 
&gt; the same protocol?
&gt; 
&gt; -- 
&gt; Les Mikesell
&gt; lesmikes...@gmail.com
&gt; 
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com


\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

