---
title: "Re: Riak Client Resources,	Deleting a Key Doesn't Remove it from bucket.keys"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-05-26T10:23:57-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03429"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg03428"
author_name: "Jonathan Langevin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-05-26T10:23:57-07:00
---


A cache seems legitimate for performance, but perhaps the cache could
additionally be maintained for inserts/deletes?
At least then the cache is still being used, but is also accurate.

I don't know how expensive that would be though, but hopefully less
expensive than a key list reload, correct?
\\*


Jonathan Langevin
Systems Administrator
Loom Inc.
Wilmington, NC: (910) 241-0433 - jlange...@loomlearning.com -
www.loomlearning.com - Skype: intel352
\\*


On Thu, May 26, 2011 at 1:18 PM, Keith Bennett &lt;
keith.benn...@lmnsolutions.com&gt; wrote:

&gt;
&gt; On May 26, 2011, at 12:40 PM, Sean Cribbs wrote:
&gt;
&gt; With recent commits (
&gt; https://github.com/seancribbs/ripple/compare/35d7323fb0e179c8c971...da3ab71a19d194c65a7b
&gt; ),
&gt; it is cached until you either refresh it manually by passing :reload =&gt; true
&gt; or a block (for streaming key lists). This was the compromise reached in
&gt; that pull-request.
&gt;
&gt; All of this caching discussion glosses over the fact that you \\*should
&gt; not list keys\\* in any real application. It really begs the question -- how
&gt; often do you list keys in Redis, or memcached? I suspect that generally you
&gt; don't. This isn't a relational database. (Also, how often do you actually
&gt; do a full-table scan in MySQL? You don't if you're sane -- you use an index,
&gt; or even LIMIT + OFFSET.)
&gt;
&gt; I'm tempted to remove Document::all and make Bucket#keys harder to access,
&gt; but the balance between discouraging bad behavior and exposing available
&gt; functionality is a hard one to strike. I don't want new developers to
&gt; immediately use list-keys and then be discouraged from using Riak because
&gt; it's slow; on the other hand, it \\*can be useful\\* in some circumstances.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; In those cases where it's useful, the developer should probably be
&gt; responsible enough to request the key list only once; the caching behavior
&gt; simply does this for them. I guess whether it \\*should\\* do this for them is
&gt; the issue at hand.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; YES! Exactly! The decision to expose the functionality has been made;
&gt; questioning whether or not this should have been done is orthogonal to
&gt; whether or not the results should be cached, and the two should be
&gt; considered separately.
&gt;
&gt; Regarding the latter, the function name represents an implied promise to
&gt; the caller; my position is that the function's behavior is a substantial and
&gt; surprising deviation from that implied promise.
&gt;
&gt; Although buckets do not \\*contain\\* key/values in the riak \\*implementation\\*,
&gt; the bucket / key-value containment metaphor pervades the developer
&gt; interface, evidenced by, for example, the existence of the Riak::Bucket
&gt; class, and the structure of the URL's with which values are manipulated. In
&gt; software products that have containment metaphors, how often do we see a
&gt; function return a cached value rather than the up-to-date value, especially
&gt; for products that manage shared data?
&gt;
&gt; All that said, I'm really torn on this issue, and the same problem applies
&gt; to full-bucket MapReduce. Caveat emptor.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Ok, I'll be quiet now. ;)
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; Keith
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt; Developer Advocate
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; http://basho.com/
&gt;
&gt; On May 26, 2011, at 10:35 AM, Jonathan Langevin wrote:
&gt;
&gt; How long is the key list cached like that, naturally?\\*
&gt;
&gt; 
&gt; Jonathan Langevin
&gt; Systems Administrator
&gt; Loom Inc.
&gt; Wilmington, NC: (910) 241-0433 - jlange...@loomlearning.com -
&gt; www.loomlearning.com - Skype: intel352
&gt; \\*
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Thu, May 26, 2011 at 10:35 AM, Sean Cribbs  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Keith,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; There was a pull-request issue out for this on the Github project (
&gt;&gt; https://github.com/seancribbs/ripple/pull/168). For various reasons, the
&gt;&gt; list of keys is memoized in the Riak::Bucket instance. Passing :reload =&gt;
&gt;&gt; true to the #keys method will cause it to refresh. I like to discourage
&gt;&gt; list-keys, but with the memoized list you don't shoot yourself in the foot
&gt;&gt; as often.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt;&gt; Developer Advocate
&gt;&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt;&gt; http://basho.com/
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On May 26, 2011, at 10:29 AM, Keith Bennett wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; All -
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; I just started working with Riak, and am using the riak-client Ruby gem.
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; When I delete a key from a bucket, and try to fetch the value associated
&gt;&gt; with that key, I get a 404 error (which is reasonable). However, it remains
&gt;&gt; in the bucket's list of keys (i.e. the value returned by bucket.keys(). Why
&gt;&gt; is the key still reported to exist in the bucket? Is bucket.keys cached, and
&gt;&gt; therefore unaware of the deletion? Here's a riak-client Ruby script and its
&gt;&gt; output in irb that illustrates this:
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; ree-1.8.7-2010.02 :001 &gt; require 'riak'
&gt;&gt; &gt; =&gt; true
&gt;&gt; &gt; ree-1.8.7-2010.02 :002 &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; ree-1.8.7-2010.02 :003 &gt; client = Riak::Client.new
&gt;&gt; &gt; =&gt; #
&gt;&gt; &gt; ree-1.8.7-2010.02 :004 &gt; bucket = client['links']
&gt;&gt; &gt; =&gt; #
&gt;&gt; &gt; ree-1.8.7-2010.02 :005 &gt; key = bucket.keys.first
&gt;&gt; &gt; =&gt; "4000-17.xml"
&gt;&gt; &gt; ree-1.8.7-2010.02 :006 &gt; object = bucket[key]
&gt;&gt; &gt; =&gt; #
&gt;&gt; &gt; ree-1.8.7-2010.02 :007 &gt; object.delete
&gt;&gt; &gt; =&gt; #
&gt;&gt; &gt; ree-1.8.7-2010.02 :008 &gt; bucket.keys.first
&gt;&gt; &gt; =&gt; "4000-17.xml"
&gt;&gt; &gt; ree-1.8.7-2010.02 :009 &gt; object = bucket[key]
&gt;&gt; &gt; Riak::HTTPFailedRequest: Expected [200, 300] from Riak but received 404.
&gt;&gt; not found
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; from
&gt;&gt; /Users/kbennett/.rvm/gems/ree-1.8.7-2010.02/gems/riak-client-0.9.4/lib/riak/client/net\\_http\\_backend.rb:55:in
&gt;&gt; `perform'
&gt;&gt; &gt; from
&gt;&gt; /Users/kbennett/.rvm/rubies/ree-1.8.7-2010.02/lib/ruby/1.8/net/http.rb:1054:in
&gt;&gt; `request'
&gt;&gt; &gt; from
&gt;&gt; /Users/kbennett/.rvm/rubies/ree-1.8.7-2010.02/lib/ruby/1.8/net/http.rb:2142:in
&gt;&gt; `reading\\_body'
&gt;&gt; &gt; from
&gt;&gt; /Users/kbennett/.rvm/rubies/ree-1.8.7-2010.02/lib/ruby/1.8/net/http.rb:1053:in
&gt;&gt; `request'
&gt;&gt; &gt; from
&gt;&gt; /Users/kbennett/.rvm/rubies/ree-1.8.7-2010.02/lib/ruby/1.8/net/http.rb:1037:in
&gt;&gt; `request'
&gt;&gt; &gt; from
&gt;&gt; /Users/kbennett/.rvm/rubies/ree-1.8.7-2010.02/lib/ruby/1.8/net/http.rb:543:in
&gt;&gt; `start'
&gt;&gt; &gt; from
&gt;&gt; /Users/kbennett/.rvm/rubies/ree-1.8.7-2010.02/lib/ruby/1.8/net/http.rb:1035:in
&gt;&gt; `request'
&gt;&gt; &gt; from
&gt;&gt; /Users/kbennett/.rvm/gems/ree-1.8.7-2010.02/gems/riak-client-0.9.4/lib/riak/client/net\\_http\\_backend.rb:47:in
&gt;&gt; `perform'
&gt;&gt; &gt; from
&gt;&gt; /Users/kbennett/.rvm/gems/ree-1.8.7-2010.02/gems/riak-client-0.9.4/lib/riak/client/net\\_http\\_backend.rb:46:in
&gt;&gt; `tap'
&gt;&gt; &gt; from
&gt;&gt; /Users/kbennett/.rvm/gems/ree-1.8.7-2010.02/gems/riak-client-0.9.4/lib/riak/client/net\\_http\\_backend.rb:46:in
&gt;&gt; `perform'
&gt;&gt; &gt; from
&gt;&gt; /Users/kbennett/.rvm/gems/ree-1.8.7-2010.02/gems/riak-client-0.9.4/lib/riak/client/http\\_backend/transport\\_methods.rb:59:in
&gt;&gt; `get'
&gt;&gt; &gt; from
&gt;&gt; /Users/kbennett/.rvm/gems/ree-1.8.7-2010.02/gems/riak-client-0.9.4/lib/riak/client/http\\_backend.rb:72:in
&gt;&gt; `fetch\\_object'
&gt;&gt; &gt; from
&gt;&gt; /Users/kbennett/.rvm/gems/ree-1.8.7-2010.02/gems/riak-client-0.9.4/lib/riak/bucket.rb:101:in
&gt;&gt; `[]'
&gt;&gt; &gt; from riak-delete-failure.rb:9
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt; &gt; Keith
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

