---
title: "Re: MapReduce request causes Erlang VM to close"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-09-13T02:40:02-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08520"
author_name: "Kresten Krab Thorup"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-09-13T02:40:02-07:00
---


What you send does not seem to indicate any errors other than the "erlang has 
closed" message. Isn't there something else you can share with us? a crash 
log or something?

Kresten

On Sep 13, 2012, at 11:32 AM, Staffan Einarsson 
&gt;
 wrote:

Hi guys,

I'm having a problem with the Erlang VM going down for a Riak node that 
receives a MapReduce request.

My setup is this:

I run three Riak 1.2.0 nodes, each on an Ubuntu Server 12.04 guest OS on 
VirtualBox 4.1.20. The host OS is Windows. I send requests through our own Riak 
client library, (uGameDB for the Unity game engine), which uses the PB 
interface. When my test script sends a MapReduce request to one of the nodes, 
the node fails instantly.

The error.log and crash.log files are empty. The erlang.log.1 file says: 
http://pastebin.com/1LHqYCaB

I have tested this with different versions of our client library, specifically 
with versions that have previously been confirmed to work, to rule out any 
error on the client side. I have also tried with different numbers of nodes, 
and it is only the node that receives the MapReduce request that fails.

Any help is greatly appreciated!

Kindly,

-- Staffan Einarsson
Engineering

Skype: staffan.einarsson
Phone: +46 70 426 07 46
http://muchdifferent.com

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com



Mobile: + 45 2343 4626 | Skype: krestenkrabthorup | Twitter: @drkrab
Trifork A/S | Margrethepladsen 4 | DK- 8000 Aarhus C | Phone : +45 8732 
8787 | www.trifork.com





\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

