---
title: "Re: Access log file"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-08-11T08:49:11-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04347"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04338"
author_name: "Dan Reverri"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-08-11T08:49:11-07:00
---


Hi Craig,

There is no option to log the request or response body.

Thanks,
Dan

Daniel Reverri
Developer Advocate
Basho Technologies, Inc.
d...@basho.com



On Wed, Aug 10, 2011 at 6:50 PM, Craig Muth  wrote:
&gt;&gt; separate section rather than included in the riak\\_kv section
&gt; Ah, that was my problem, thanks.  It's a bit subtle
&gt; on http://wiki.basho.com/Configuration-Files.html what the "riak\\_kv" label
&gt; applies to.
&gt; The log is very helpful.  Any way to have it include the body of the post
&gt; and/or what was returned?
&gt; --Craig
&gt;
&gt; On Wed, Aug 10, 2011 at 6:30 PM, Dan Reverri  wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; This part should be a separate section rather than included in the
&gt;&gt; riak\\_kv section:
&gt;&gt; %% Enable logging
&gt;&gt; {webmachine, [{webmachine\\_logger\\_module, webmachine\\_logger}]},
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Look at line 209 here:
&gt;&gt; http://pastie.org/2353333
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; The logger produces files in the "log/access" directory:
&gt;&gt; ls -al log/access/
&gt;&gt; total 8
&gt;&gt; drwxr-xr-x  7 dreverri  staff  238 Aug 10 18:00 .
&gt;&gt; drwxr-xr-x  8 dreverri  staff  272 Aug 10 14:59 ..
&gt;&gt; -rw-r--r--  1 dreverri  staff    0 Aug 10 14:59 access.log.2011\\_08\\_10\\_21
&gt;&gt; -rw-r--r--  1 dreverri  staff  168 Aug 10 15:00 access.log.2011\\_08\\_10\\_22
&gt;&gt; -rw-r--r--  1 dreverri  staff    0 Aug 10 16:00 access.log.2011\\_08\\_10\\_23
&gt;&gt; -rw-r--r--  1 dreverri  staff    0 Aug 10 17:00 access.log.2011\\_08\\_11\\_00
&gt;&gt; -rw-r--r--  1 dreverri  staff    0 Aug 10 18:00 access.log.2011\\_08\\_11\\_01
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt; Dan
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Daniel Reverri
&gt;&gt; Developer Advocate
&gt;&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt;&gt; d...@basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Wed, Aug 10, 2011 at 6:20 PM, Craig Muth  wrote:
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; &gt; Did you add the "http\\_logdir" option to the "riak\\_core" section?
&gt;&gt; &gt; Yes.
&gt;&gt; &gt; &gt; A pastie of your app.config might help as well.
&gt;&gt; &gt; http://pastie.org/2353285
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; Will the log show a line for each request to riak (GET, PUT, etc)?  What
&gt;&gt; &gt; is the name of the log file that's supposed to appear?
&gt;&gt; &gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt; &gt; --Craig
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; On Wed, Aug 10, 2011 at 3:01 PM, Dan Reverri  wrote:
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; Hi Craig,
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; Did you add the "http\\_logdir" option to the "riak\\_core" section? A
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; pastie of your app.config might help as well.
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; Dan
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; Daniel Reverri
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; Developer Advocate
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; d...@basho.com
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; On Tue, Aug 9, 2011 at 6:40 PM, Craig Muth  wrote:
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; I added {http\\_logdir, "log/access"}, and {webmachine,
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; [{webmachine\\_logger\\_module, webmachine\\_logger}]}, 
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; to rel/riak/etc/app.config
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; Where should the access log file be showing up?  It's not showing up
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; in rel/riak/log.
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; Also will the log show a line for each request to riak (GET, PUT,
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; etc)?
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; --Craig
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;
&gt;

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

