---
title: "Re: Achieving 100% consitency"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-08-26T13:57:48-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04482"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04479"
author_name: "Ian Plosker"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-08-26T13:57:48-07:00
---


Lukas, 

You should take a look at Riak Seach (http://wiki.basho.com/Riak-Search.html). 
This is the exact sort of use case for which it was designed.

Ian Plosker
Developer Advocate
Basho Technologies


On Aug 26, 2011, at 3:17 PM, Lukas Schulze wrote:

&gt; I'm doing some simple tests with Riak and tried to build something like an 
&gt; index.
&gt; Therefore I created new buckets for some attributes like "name", "street" and 
&gt; "city".
&gt; One entry in the index-bucket "name" is for example "Mueller" and the value 
&gt; contains all user ids, formatted as an JSON string: "{id:[1,5,8,13,2,7]}"
&gt; The java objects are saved as JSON strings in a separate bucket "users", the 
&gt; keys in this bucket are the user-ids, the values are the JSON strings.
&gt; 
&gt; If I add 200 users via Java and the RiakPBC client every loop I fetch the 
&gt; index, add the new user id and store it again in Riak.
&gt; But java is too fast, so I receive an old version of the bucket.
&gt; 
&gt; Because I've only one node I set the n-value to 1, r = 1, w = 1 and dw = 1.
&gt; But I have to wait nearly 2 seconds to be mostly sure to get the correct 
&gt; response. (the computer isn't an high-end machine ;-) )
&gt; 
&gt; Is it possible to be sure that the data will be saved permanently and I can 
&gt; continue adding users?
&gt; Are there any caching methods I can configure?
&gt; Can I set the default n-value to 1 so that every newly created bucket will 
&gt; have this value?
&gt; Does Riak have any kind of indexes or is it possible to implement it a better 
&gt; way?
&gt; 
&gt; In my first version I saved all users in one bucket and iterated over all of 
&gt; them to find the correct one. But for every single request from the Java 
&gt; Service to Riak it took nearly 200ms. For a huge amount of entries (10,000) 
&gt; this isn't practible. Therefore I tried to implement my own indexes.
&gt; 
&gt; The main focus of my question is getting rid of the inconsistent reads.
&gt; 
&gt; Thank you.
&gt; 
&gt; Best Regards
&gt; Lukas
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

