---
title: "Re: bitcask 42?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-10-01T14:57:00-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01180"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg01175"
author_name: "Dan Reverri"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-10-01T14:57:00-07:00
---


The value of ring\\_creation\\_size dictates how many partitions your Riak
cluster will manage. These partitions are distributed amongst the nodes of
your cluster. Each node in the cluster with manage a portion of the ring (
ring\\_creation\\_size / number of nodes ). A larger ring means each node will
be responsible for more partitions which means each node will open more
files (ulimit -n).

Thanks,
Dan

Daniel Reverri
Developer Advocate
Basho Technologies, Inc.
d...@basho.com


On Fri, Oct 1, 2010 at 12:51 PM, Mojito Sorbet  wrote:

&gt; On Fri, 2010-10-01 at 09:24 -0700, Dan Reverri wrote:
&gt;
&gt; &gt; Projects will typically define an upper bound for a cluster's size
&gt; &gt; based on available datacenter space, available power, cost, etc.
&gt; &gt; Choosing a ring\\_creation\\_size value based on this upper bound will
&gt; &gt; allow you to start small and grow into your cluster.
&gt;
&gt; Ok, but these days there is no fixed size "data center". If I need more
&gt; resources I can add them dynamically from Amazon or an equivalent cloud
&gt; provider. If I accidentally create the next Facebook and it keeps
&gt; growing, it would be nice not to have to backup and restore the whole
&gt; thing as it grows into multiple hundreds of terrabytes, especially
&gt; considering the downtime required.
&gt;
&gt; What is the penalty for making the ring size a lot bigger than the
&gt; initial number of nodes would require?
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

