---
title: "Re: Inline fields in riak search"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-10-22T20:20:40-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01350"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg01348"
author_name: "Jebu Ittiachen"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-10-22T20:20:40-07:00
---


Hi Rusty,
 Looking forward to it coming out, exactly the use case I was hoping to
have it for.
--
Jebu Ittiachen
j...@jebu.net


On Fri, Oct 22, 2010 at 6:13 PM, Rusty Klophaus  wrote:

&gt; Hi Jebu,
&gt;
&gt; Inline fields are a partially implemented feature that we hope to expose
&gt; soon, but are currently not supported. The basic idea, once released, is
&gt; that marking a field in your schema as inline changes the way that field is
&gt; stored in the index, allowing you to use the inline field to quickly filter
&gt; results at the expense of a larger index.
&gt;
&gt; A good use case for this is a low cardinality field like "gender". Indexing
&gt; on gender is useless, since roughly 50% will be male and 50% will be female.
&gt; If you define gender as an inline field, Search will store the gender as a
&gt; property in the index for other fields, and then rewrite the query
&gt; appropriately. This is an advanced feature, but one that could lead to
&gt; significant query performance boosts depending on the data model.
&gt;
&gt; Again, inline fields are not yet supported, but this is the general idea.
&gt;
&gt; Best,
&gt; Rusty
&gt;
&gt; On Thu, Oct 21, 2010 at 1:43 AM, Jebu Ittiachen  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi,
&gt;&gt; I see references to inline fields in the riak search schema and search
&gt;&gt; code but dont see it documented anywhere. Nor does the parser seem to
&gt;&gt; support it. Could someone shed more light on this, from the implementation
&gt;&gt; in search\\_op\\_term looks like it could be very useful.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; Jebu Ittiachen
&gt;&gt; j...@jebu.net
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

