---
title: "Re: Building riak-erlang-client"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-10-25T05:18:23-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg09055"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg09053"
author_name: "David Parfitt"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-10-25T05:18:23-07:00
---


Hello Martin -

 Yes, riak-erlang-client 1.3.1 is the latest tag that you should be
using to build from Github. The protobuffs implementation produces
several warnings during compilation.

I attached the output of 'make' and 'rebar eunit' using Erlang R15B01
to the gist [1] referenced below. I haven't tried R15B02, however
there is an open issue reported [2] when building Riak against it. I
would recommend sticking with R15B01 for now if possible.

Cheers -
Dave

[1] https://gist.github.com/3952217
[2] https://github.com/basho/riak/issues/227


On Thu, Oct 25, 2012 at 4:36 AM, Martin Woods  wrote:
&gt; Hi
&gt;
&gt; We're in the process of upgrading Riak to 1.2.1 and have a question
&gt; regarding the correct stable version of the riak-erlang-client to use within
&gt; our Erlang app against this version of Riak. It seems that we should be
&gt; cloning riak-erlang-client from github and using the state of the code as
&gt; tagged at version 1.3.1. Is this correct?
&gt;
&gt; If we checkout this tag and make (we're using R15B02 on Ubuntu 12.04), then
&gt; it dutifully pulls down riak\\_pb and protobuffs - but from the master branch
&gt; for both of these. Compilation then generates a series of warnings, which
&gt; seem harmless enough as they're warning about missing specifications and
&gt; unused variables. (Apart from the one that reads:
&gt; "src/protobuffs\\_compile.erl:478: Warning: variable 'Acc' shadowed in 'fun'"
&gt; - is this anything to worry about?).
&gt;
&gt; Is all of this to be expected?
&gt;
&gt; Thanks and regards,
&gt; Martin.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

