---
title: "Re: Capacity planning page clarification"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-05-18T14:16:32-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03360"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg03322"
author_name: "Mark Phillips"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-05-18T14:16:32-07:00
---


Hey mox,

Thanks for the feedback. Exactly what we were looking for. I just
created a new issue [1] for it on the Riak Wiki repo to make sure we
get this stuff incorporated if it makes sense. As always, pull
requests are encouraged :)

Keep it coming.

Mark

1 - https://github.com/basho/riak\\_wiki/issues/98

On Thu, May 12, 2011 at 4:29 PM, Mike Oxford  wrote:
&gt; This may be slightly nit-picky, but this tool marginal at best.
&gt; http://wiki.basho.com/Bitcask-Capacity-Planning.html
&gt; Total number of keys
&gt; Average Bucket Size (bytes)
&gt; Average Key size
&gt; Average Value Size (Bytes)
&gt;
&gt; Some of these are kind of ambiguous, and I'm not sure why this setup was
&gt; chosen...
&gt; 1)  Total number of keys?  Each bucket has N entries comprising N keys + 1
&gt; for the bucket?  (So we need buckets\\*(N+1))
&gt; 2)  Average bucket size (bytes)  Why in bytes?  Am I to precalculate the
&gt; stuff to input into the calculator?  Do you mean ((keys\\*key\\_size) +
&gt; (values\\*value\\_size))
&gt; 3)  Average Key size (Of the bucket?  Of the kv pairs?  A bucket is just a
&gt; keyed namespace, right?)  I'm guessing you meant "in bytes" like the rest?
&gt; Why not:
&gt; \\*  How many buckets will you have?
&gt; \\*  How big is each bucket name?
&gt; \\*  How many entries will you have in each bucket (average)?
&gt; \\*  How big is each value in the entry? (average)
&gt; Everything can then be computed directly from the above with no ambiguity of
&gt; "which keys" or "what are they really looking for."
&gt; The same for the Bitcask calculator.  When you have stuff such as "Average
&gt; Bucket Size (bytes)" (defaulted to 15) but then "Average Value Size (byte)"
&gt; defaulted to 2000 that leads me to:  o\\_0
&gt; -mox
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

