---
title: "Re: How to make Riak work faster (writing)"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-11-02T05:04:43-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg09152"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg09151"
author_name: "Sebastian Cohnen"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-11-02T05:04:43-07:00
---


What level of concurrency are you using in your test setup? Are you hitting 
both servers with your test? What is your n\\_val and w?


On 02.11.2012, at 03:42, Uruka Dark  wrote:

&gt; Hi,
&gt; 
&gt; I'm new here and with Riak. If I do something wrong, please, let me know.
&gt; 
&gt; I've made a Riak cluster with two identical machines: Intel core i3 2.3GHz 
&gt; 4GB RAM 1TB HD. They are connected by a gigabit ethernet network. Everything 
&gt; is working fine. I'm using a Bitcask backend.
&gt; 
&gt; I've made a PHP script to do a performance test and find out how fast Riak 
&gt; can be with these settings. What my script is doing is: to store 10000 
&gt; objects with a 10K long data (string of 10240 x 'A'), and calculating how 
&gt; many objects it stores per second.
&gt; 
&gt; Right now, using Bitcask backend, it can store roughly 68 objects per second. 
&gt; It seems to be a small number to me, but I don't know too much about Riak. 
&gt; I've tested the same script on a Couchbase cluster, with the same settings, 
&gt; and it could store roughly 1000 objects per second. Obviously, on Couchbase 
&gt; test, the data is not sent to non-volatile media immediately. Data is kept in 
&gt; memory to acknowledge the reception as fast as possible, and is sent to 
&gt; non-volatile media in background. I want Riak to behave the same way to 
&gt; increase the "writing speed", but I don't know how to do it or if it is 
&gt; possible. May be I'm trying to do something completely out of the purpose of 
&gt; Riak.
&gt; 
&gt; I've tested Riak with Memory backend too, but it achieved only 72 objects per 
&gt; second. I expected it to work faster with Memory backend, cause there is no 
&gt; disk activity involved on it, but the final result is not that high.
&gt; 
&gt; Again, I don't know if I'm trying to do something inappropriate. I think I'm 
&gt; missing something.
&gt; Is there any way to do it?
&gt; 
&gt; If I could not make myself clear, please, let me know.
&gt; Thank you.
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com


\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

