---
title: "Re: Starting off - idomatic riak"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-08-09T00:29:23-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00851"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg00850"
author_name: "Alexander Sicular"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-08-09T00:29:23-07:00
---


A common patterns for doing this would be to store the document in something 
like docs/docid and the meta in a derived location such as docs\\_meta/docid. You 
could map reduce the meta in the docs\\_meta bucket to get a list of keys that 
would exist in the docs bucket. Derived locations are a good way to go 
especially in 1 to 1 relationships. Link walking is another method. Your meta 
document could store links to other documents in its link headers that would 
also be retrieved either by a link walking m/r or further down the line after 
some query style m/r where you filter the metadata itself. Links are 
unidirectional in Riak.

Hope this helps. -Alexander



On Aug 9, 2010, at 3:13 AM, Steve Lloyd wrote:

&gt; As a complete new starter on riak, I wonder if someone could advise on what 
&gt; is the idiomatic way of using riak in the case of wanting to store a document 
&gt; together with some associated metadata (and wanting to retrieve the object 
&gt; based on metadata queries). Application-imposed link from the 'metadata' 
&gt; document to the key of the 'main' document? A parent child relationship? 
&gt; Thanks.
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; ---- 
&gt; International Baccalaureate
&gt; Steve Lloyd Research Engineer-Business Analysis
&gt; Peterson House, Malthouse Ave. Cardiff Gate, CARDIFF CF23 8GL, United Kingdom
&gt; Tel: +44 2920 547869 | Fax: +44 2920 547779 | Web: http://www.ibo.org
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com


\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

