---
title: "Re: Riak Core Question"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-05-03T16:11:11-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03217"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg03213"
author_name: "David Dawson"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-05-03T16:11:11-07:00
---


Jo,

Thanks for getting back to me, I actually have already tried the solution you 
suggested, although I still came across the problem where in the event of a 
primary coming back after a failure I would end up with 2 active processes. I 
am sure I could get around my issue if I could ask the question: "Where would 
my fallback node be in the event of a failure of the primary? and is it 
active?". Anyway assuming that it can not be done and storing state somewhere 
would become a bottleneck I like the idea of a group of processes with an 
elected leader that just deals with the requests, and in the event of it dying 
/ disappearing another process can take over. I will have a look at the 
gen\\_leader work although it may be an overkill and I could do something very 
simple such as:

 Assuming N=3

 1. Take the 3 primary nodes returned from 
riak\\_core\\_apl:get\\_primary\\_apl()
 
 2. Spawn a process on each of them ( FSM's in a state of inactive )
 
 3. With each of the Pids do a quick sort on them to find the smallest

 4. Send a request to the smallest pid to make it active but also supply 
the other pids as part of the args so it can check that they are not active 

 5. If this returns an ok, then send the desired request otherwise try 
again a random amount of time later

 6. If one of the 3 processes dies and it happens to be the active one 
then another will naturally take over on the next request. 

 7. If the process comes back some time later and happens to still have 
the smallest pid then it will ask the current leader to send it it's current 
queue of requests ( I will store this in the state ), finish it's current work 
then go inactive and let it know once this is done so the new process can go 
active.
 

After writing the above I am getting the impression I am re-inventing the wheel 
and probably should use a tried and tested election algorithm, or even riak\\_zab 
if I decide to go down this route.

Dave


On 3 May 2011, at 21:54, Joseph Blomstedt wrote:

&gt; If you want to determine if a vnode is a primary or secondary node,
&gt; you can check if a vnode owns the particular index it is handling. If
&gt; it owns the index, it's a primary; otherwise, a secondary.
&gt; riak\\_core\\_ring:index\\_owner is the function to look into. The
&gt; should\\_handoff function in riak\\_core\\_vnode serves as a good example.
&gt; Handoff is triggered when a secondary node determines that the primary
&gt; node is up.
&gt; 
&gt; However, I am not sure if this helps much. Unless you already have a
&gt; solution that works if you can determine this information. Of course,
&gt; there may be other approaches.
&gt; 
&gt; The command/sync\\_command logic inside riak\\_core does not directly
&gt; handle routing / re-routing between primary and fallback nodes. You
&gt; have flexibility in your application to route to partitions as
&gt; desired. Yes, the riak\\_core\\_apl module handles primary / secondaries,
&gt; but there is no inherent need to use that code.
&gt; 
&gt; So, it is entirely possible for you to have logic within your
&gt; application that is smart in choosing which {node, index} pair to send
&gt; your requests to. The idea would be to favor the actual partition
&gt; owner (ie. the primary) and only fallback to secondaries (adjacent
&gt; partitions in the ring) when the primary is down. Basically, the same
&gt; thing riak\\_core\\_apl / riak\\_kv does. However, you could have additional
&gt; book-keeping that knows where current outstanding requests are and
&gt; ensure no parallel requests.
&gt; 
&gt; Of course, this assumes you have somewhere to do this book-keeping,
&gt; eg. state outside of riak\\_core.
&gt; 
&gt; In some ways, one instance of this problem is effectively reducible to
&gt; leader election. You could always consider a set of primary/secondary
&gt; vnodes as a group and use a leader election algorithm to always ensure
&gt; a single vnode is the leader at any point -- and only send request to
&gt; that leader. The existing gen\\_leader module you can find online may
&gt; fit this bill.
&gt; 
&gt; -Joe
&gt; 
&gt; On Tue, May 3, 2011 at 1:06 PM, David Dawson  wrote:
&gt;&gt; I have a quick question regarding riak\\_core:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Basically I am trying to build an application on top of riak\\_core 
&gt;&gt; that allows me to spawn a session per user interaction, so I can both hold 
&gt;&gt; state and queue requests to ensure ( as best I can ) that a user will only 
&gt;&gt; be interacting with my system in a serialised manner.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; My understandings are as follows with riak\\_core:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 1. You obtain a list of possible vnodes that can serve your request 
&gt;&gt; based on a hash of a key which in my case is a user\\_id
&gt;&gt; 2. You then use each of the vnodes in the list to execute your 
&gt;&gt; request which in my case is 1 as I have N=1.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; In my situation I want to kill a node ( simulate a failure ) send 
&gt;&gt; some further long running requests in that whose primary node is the one 
&gt;&gt; that has been killed, and then bring back up the dead node and send some 
&gt;&gt; more requests in with the safe knowledge that I will not end up with 2 
&gt;&gt; vnodes ( primary and fallback ) that are processing the requests at the 
&gt;&gt; same time. Has anyone got any suggestions how I may achieve this? as I have 
&gt;&gt; scoured the riak\\_core source code and can not find a way to test if a vnode 
&gt;&gt; is present on a primary and fallback node at the same time, or am I barking 
&gt;&gt; up the wrong tree and trying to achieve the unachievable.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Also I know I can not protect from a spit brain using this approach, 
&gt;&gt; although this is okay as under these rare occasions I have plans to deal 
&gt;&gt; with this in the business logic of the App.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Dave
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; 

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

