---
title: "Re: Luwak EOL"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-12-23T05:47:24-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06051"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06049"
author_name: "Zheng Zhibin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-12-23T05:47:24-08:00
---


Dear Basho Team,

Can you explain more detailed reason for EOL Luwak? And is there some 
replacement or alternative solution for the part Luwak taking in Riak?

Best regards,
Zheng Zhibin

在 2011-12-23，下午6:51，Dmitry Rozhkov  写道：

&gt; Hi,
&gt; 
&gt; That's really sad. My project relies on LUWAK.
&gt; Is there any plan to introduce a replacement for storing large values?
&gt; 
&gt; BR,
&gt; Dima
&gt; 
&gt; 2011/12/20 David Smith :
&gt;&gt; Hi all,
&gt;&gt; I wanted to take a moment and let the community-at-large know that we
&gt;&gt; are going to end-of-life the Luwak functionality in Riak, as part of
&gt;&gt; our 1.1 release in February. This simply means that the Luwak repo on
&gt;&gt; Github will not be actively developed/supported by Basho, or included
&gt;&gt; as a default Riak dependency. In keeping with our commitment to Open
&gt;&gt; Source, the code will still be available if someone else wants to
&gt;&gt; develop on it. You can also continue to use it with Riak if you are
&gt;&gt; willing to edit the deps and compile from source -- the Luwak README
&gt;&gt; will contain information on how to do this.
&gt;&gt; While the idea of Luwak was interesting, we ultimately decided that it
&gt;&gt; wasn’t the architectural path we wanted to pursue for storing larger
&gt;&gt; values in Riak. If Luwak is a piece of your Riak deployment, we’d love
&gt;&gt; to hear from you and incorporate your feedback into future directions.
&gt;&gt; Please don’t hesitate to reach out to myself or Mark Phillips.
&gt;&gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt; D.
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; Dave Smith
&gt;&gt; Director, Engineering
&gt;&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt;&gt; diz...@basho.com
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

