---
title: "Re: Correct way to use pbc/mapreduce to do multiget where keys and	bucket names are binary values?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-06-16T09:55:00-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03717"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg03556"
author_name: "Jacques"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-06-16T09:55:00-07:00
---


Thanks for the info. As a note, I found that the javascript function was
having trouble return binary values.

I followed your suggestion and am now using the following function. (Here
for others.)

-module(multiget).
-export([key\\_value/3]).

key\\_value({error, notfound}, \\_KD, \\_) -&gt;
 none;
key\\_value(RiakObject, \\_KD, \\_) -&gt;
 [riak\\_object:bucket(RiakObject),riak\\_object:key(RiakObject),
riak\\_object:get\\_value(RiakObject)].


Thanks again for your help. I haven't done performance tests yet but am
hoping that this is more performant than 20 individual gets.

I must say that I'm still quite surprised that a key value store of Riak's
caliber doesn't have a native binary multiget within the core pbc api.

Jacques

On Thu, Jun 16, 2011 at 5:03 AM, Russell Brown  wrote:

&gt; Hi Jaques,
&gt; Sorry for the slow reply. I think this one just slipped by me.
&gt;
&gt; Ok. answers inline below:
&gt;
&gt; On 14 Jun 2011, at 18:26, Jacques wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Does anybody have any insight on my questions below?
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; Jacques
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Tue, Jun 7, 2011 at 6:12 PM, Jacques  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; I've been working on this. I have it working with an anonymous javascript
&gt;&gt; function. I was hoping to move it to using the "map\\_object\\_value" built-in
&gt;&gt; erlang function. However, when I attempt to use this function, I get
&gt;&gt; failures if any of my keys don't exist. Is there a way to construct my map
&gt;&gt; phase so that it gracefully handles not founds and just returns what it
&gt;&gt; finds?
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Yes. riak\\_kv\\_mapreduce:map\\_object\\_value accepts an arg value of
&gt; either "filter\\_notfound", "include\\_notfound" or "include\\_keydata", so your
&gt; not found values can be omitted by passing "filter\\_notfound" as the arg
&gt; value for the map phase (instead of ATOM\\_NONE in your construction.)
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Also, using this function, is there a way to return the bucket and key
&gt;&gt; names?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt; No not using riak\\_kv\\_mapreduce:map\\_object\\_value, you could use
&gt; riak\\_kv\\_mapreduce:map\\_identity to get the whole riak object (meta data, key
&gt; and value) or just write your own map reduce function that returns the data
&gt; you want (and can filter out the not founds just like map\\_object\\_value)
&gt;
&gt; Or can one assume the response order is identical to the order of inputs?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt; No.
&gt;
&gt; deletia
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Cheers
&gt;
&gt; Russell
&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

