---
title: "Re: default bucket settings"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-10-09T00:19:44-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08836"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg08834"
author_name: "kamiseq"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-10-09T00:19:44-07:00
---


thanks,
I also visited that section but it deals only with n, r and w property in
general. and reading only about n, r and w it feels like you know what is
going on, and then you see dw, rw, pr and pw and googling doesn't bring
clear explanation, so you get more and more confused.

(heh I know casing doesn't matter :)

pozdrawiam
Paweł Kamiński

kami...@gmail.com
pkaminski....@gmail.com
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_


On 9 October 2012 07:31, Martin Westergaard Lassen wrote:

&gt; Hi Pawel
&gt;
&gt; The "Concept" wiki page (
&gt; http://wiki.basho.com/Concepts.html#Reading%2C-Writing%2C-and-Updating-Data)
&gt; has a good introduction to the most important paramters. Casing doesn't
&gt; matter, so r=R.
&gt;
&gt; The Riak Handbook has a good and deep explanation of what those parameters
&gt; are http://riakhandbook.com
&gt;
&gt; \\*Martin Westergaard Lassen\\*
&gt; \\*Software Pilot\\*
&gt; \\*\\* \\*\\*
&gt; Trifork A/S\\*\\*\\*\\*
&gt; Margrethepladsen 4 · 8000 Aarhus C. · Denmark\\*\\*\\*\\*
&gt; Mobile +45 31 12 10 59
&gt; \\*\\* \\*\\*
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Den 08/10/2012 kl. 22.56 skrev kamiseq :
&gt;
&gt; Im looking for explanation what exactly r, pr, w, dw, pw, rw stands for.
&gt;
&gt; Im sorry if this was already posted but I cannot find anything on
&gt; that. I tried wiki.basho.com/Riak-Glossary.html,
&gt; http://wiki.basho.com/HTTP-API.html#Bucket-Operations,
&gt; http://wiki.basho.com/Buckets.html but it only describes N, R, W.
&gt;
&gt; do I understand correctly that W property is only considered when
&gt; updating value and for first store N value is used? or is it:
&gt; replicate data N times but return success if it was persisted to W
&gt; vnodes.
&gt; if DW is durable write then what W really means? can I get successful
&gt; response after write operation without object being persisted to
&gt; durable storage??
&gt;
&gt; I must admit Im quite confused here.
&gt;
&gt; And second question, If I set r, pr, w, dw, pw, rw in app.config for
&gt; every configured node in cluster those values will not be added to
&gt; gossiped information, right?
&gt;
&gt; pozdrawiam
&gt; Paweł Kamiński
&gt;
&gt; kami...@gmail.com
&gt; pkaminski....@gmail.com
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&lt;&gt;\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

