---
title: "Re: Importing data to Riak"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-11-14T05:20:48-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05573"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg05572"
author_name: "Andres Jaan Tack"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-11-14T05:20:48-08:00
---


I was able to achieve similar results. I wrote a Ruby process that would
keep at most n (I think n = 10) things at once and reached 2,500ish req/s
on my macbook pro.

I loaded data to a cluster of six Riak nodes by running several of these
processes at once and attaching each to a different Riak node, and I hit
18,000 req/s. I'm not sure whether loading different nodes affected the
speed or not, now that I think of it.

2011/11/14 Russell Brown 

&gt;
&gt; On 14 Nov 2011, at 11:47, Nitish Sharma wrote:
&gt;
&gt; &gt; Hi,
&gt; &gt; This is more sort of a discussion than a question. I am just trying to
&gt; see the trend in how users import their data to Riak.
&gt; &gt; For the data I am using, I was able to achieve almost 150 records/second
&gt; with PHP library, and 400 records/second with node.js (fairly new with
&gt; node; was hitting memory wall when trying to import 1 million records).
&gt; &gt; What are some hacks/tricks/tweaks to import large amount of data to Riak?
&gt;
&gt; New keys, new data, straight in for the first time, no fetch before store?
&gt; I've had reasonable results creating a \\*number\\* of threads and using the
&gt; Java Raw PB client to write.
&gt;
&gt; For example, maybe have a 1 or a couple of threads that reads data (from
&gt; Oracle, a file, what-have-you) and puts it on a queue, and have a bunch of
&gt; threads that pull data off the queue, create a riak object and store it.
&gt; From my laptop I've got up to 2500 writes a second like this, and it was
&gt; just ad hoc, throw away code with 4 threads against a small 3 node cluster
&gt; (running on desktops.)
&gt;
&gt; I imagine others on the list have more direct, real world examples?
&gt;
&gt; Cheers
&gt;
&gt; Russell
&gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Cheers
&gt; &gt; Nitish
&gt; &gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

