---
title: "Riak Recap for 4/28"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-04-29T08:05:20-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00206"
author_name: "Mark Phillips"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-04-29T08:05:20-07:00
---


Hey All -

Action packed recap for today --&gt; a few questions for your Riak
edification and pointer to a new piece of Riak-related software.

Enjoy -

Mark

Mark Phillips
Community Manager
wiki.basho.com
twitter.com/pharkmillups

------


Riak Recap for 4/28


1) Q --- I just installed riak and attached to the console. What's a
simple write-then-read query I can try to see that it's working? (from
akkartik via IRC)

 A --- "riak-admin test" will take care of this 


2) Q --- I thought I read somewhere that riak uses etags? if so that
would indicate there is / could also be network caching... (from
bkaney via IRC)

 A --- Yes. Riak does use etags which would make network caching (
or "web caching" ) possible.


3) Q (for anyone thinking about Riak w/ Ruby) --- I have an app not
using Rails 3, any options on getting ripple to work? Or just HTTP
do-it-yourself? (from laserllama via Twitter)

 A --- Install it as a plugin via git. You can use low-level API,
but document library will require ActiveModel 3.( It should be noted,
however ,that @seancribbs just committed a small fix to Ripple
yesterday that lets you use the low-level lib with 2.3.x )

 More info on Ripple, Riak's Ruby Client, can be found here --- &gt;
http://github.com/seancribbs/ripple


4 ) Those of you who aren't devout readers of the the Basho Blog might
have missed our announcement about the release of Bitcask. Bitcask is
"a simple yet powerful local key/value data store" that @justinsheey
and @dizzyco threw together with the help of Basho Board Member
@eric\\_brewer. (Needless to say, we are damn excited about it!)
Bitcask is intended to be a high performance storage engine for Riak
(or whatever else you might want to throw it behind; we won't judge
you.)

Here is the announcement from the blog:

http://blog.basho.com/2010/04/27/hello,-bitcask/

Also, some performance tests showed up not long after Bitcask's
release (h/t to the always thorough @obdurodon for posting this) :

http://pl.atyp.us/wordpress/?p=2868

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

