---
title: "Re: Limit on number of buckets"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-09-16T11:57:59-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01085"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg01084"
author_name: "Sean Cribbs"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-09-16T11:57:59-07:00
---


Listing keys in a bucket is not necessarily going to be faster than storing the 
list in an object. You might want to measure this to be sure - be aware that 
list-keys is bound by the total number of keys in the cluster, not by the 
amount in the bucket.

Sean Cribbs 
Developer Advocate
Basho Technologies, Inc.
http://basho.com/

On Sep 16, 2010, at 2:49 PM, Scott wrote:

&gt; Thanks for the quick replies Sean and Alexander. One of our current products 
&gt; allows users to sign up for weather alerts based on their zip code. When we 
&gt; receive a weather alert for a set of locations, we need to quickly find all 
&gt; users in the zip codes effected. We currently do this with a simple sql query 
&gt; against a relational db. Being new at this key/value store thing, we are not 
&gt; sure the best way to tackle this with Riak.
&gt; 
&gt; Some zip codes have over 20,000 users, so storing the users in a json array 
&gt; with the zip code as the key would get ugly fast. One thought was to store 
&gt; the user profiles in one bucket, and then add an key per user in the correct 
&gt; zip code bucket, perhaps with a link back to the users record in the profile 
&gt; bucket. We could then fetch the keys for the effected zip codes using map 
&gt; reduce. I am open to all suggestions on how to best model this type of data 
&gt; in Riak.
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; Scott
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; Sean Cribbs wrote:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Scott,
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; There is no limit on the number of buckets unless you are changing the 
&gt;&gt; bucket properties, like the replication factor, allow\\_mult, or the pre- and 
&gt;&gt; post-commit hooks. Buckets that have properties other than the defaults 
&gt;&gt; consume space in the ring state. Other than that, they are essentially free 
&gt;&gt; unless you're using a backend that segregates data by bucket - the only one 
&gt;&gt; that does at this time is innostore.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Is there a reason you need so many buckets? 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt;&gt; Developer Advocate
&gt;&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt;&gt; http://basho.com/
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On Sep 16, 2010, at 2:17 PM, SKester wrote:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Is there a practical (or hard) limit to the number of buckets a riak 
&gt;&gt;&gt; cluster can handle? One possible data model we could use for one 
&gt;&gt;&gt; application could result in ~80,000 buckets. Is that a reasonable number?
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt;&gt; Scott
&gt;&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; 

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

