---
title: "Re: How to enabled a riak-search KV bucket from the erlang library"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-12-14T17:45:22-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01790"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg01787"
author_name: "Bryan Nagle"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-12-14T17:45:22-08:00
---


Hi,

Quick question on this: Does using the code you provided for enabling
search also create the bucket if it does not exist? Does this matter? I
understand the general idea is that you never need to specifically create
buckets, but am wondering if setting the properties on a non-existant bucket
will work. Basically we want to be sure that riak search is enabled for a
bucket before we start putting any K,V's into it.

Bryan Nagle
Liquid Analytics
bryan.na...@liquidanalytics.com


On Tue, Dec 14, 2010 at 2:22 PM, Sean Cribbs  wrote:

&gt; Carson,
&gt;
&gt; Unfortunately the PB interface, as you discovered, doesn't support all the
&gt; bucket properties. You could, however, also use the riak-erlang-http-client
&gt; which has full support for all bucket properties. We realize this is a pain
&gt; point and will be working to improve the PB interface in the near future.
&gt; To enable the precommit hook, do something like this with the HTTP client:
&gt;
&gt; Client = rhc:create(), %% use create/4 if you're not connecting to
&gt; localhost
&gt; rhc:set\\_bucket(Client, "my\\_bucket", [{&lt;&lt;"precommit"&gt;&gt;, [
&gt; {struct, [{&lt;&lt;"mod"&gt;&gt;, &lt;&lt;"riak\\_search\\_kv\\_hook"&gt;&gt;}, {&lt;&lt;"fun"&gt;&gt;,
&gt; &lt;&lt;"precommit"&gt;&gt;}]}
&gt; ]}]).
&gt;
&gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt; Developer Advocate
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; http://basho.com/
&gt;
&gt; On Dec 14, 2010, at 12:39 PM, carson li wrote:
&gt;
&gt; hey everyone,
&gt;
&gt; i'm trying to figure out if it's possible to enable the precommit hook for
&gt; a riak bucket using the erlang library. i know you can do it from a curl
&gt; statement, or using the "search-cmd install". it also states on the
&gt; pb-client that there's only suport for modifying 2 bucket properties, which
&gt; is n\\_val, and allow\\_multi.
&gt;
&gt; i was just wondering if you guys know of, or have found any work arounds to
&gt; turn on riak search for a KV bucket. (i'm trying to create a bucket and then
&gt; turn on the indexing from my application)
&gt;
&gt; Please let me know. Thanks in advance.
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Carson Li
&gt; Liquid Analytics
&gt; carson...@liquidanalytics.com
&gt; 647-273-1024
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

