---
title: "Re: Restart - Rails 3 + Ripple"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-08-31T11:34:02-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00990"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg00988"
author_name: "Brian Kaney"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-08-31T11:34:02-07:00
---



On Aug 31, 2010, at 1:17 PM, Sean Cribbs wrote:
&gt; The testing harness is slated for the 0.9 release. I wanted it "now" but 
&gt; that would mean delaying the next release too much. The current plan is to 
&gt; give the harness the location of your Riak installation, and it will start 
&gt; Riak up with a memory backend, and bounce it when you tell it to.



That would be very cool. Can't wait for it! 

Keeping delete-by-bucket on the wish list would still be nice, I could see it 
very useful down the road as we iterate with data shapes and deal with data 
migrations.


&gt; 
&gt; riak-qc.js uses qc.js's conventions, for better or worse. I initially tried 
&gt; unit-testing frameworks for Javascript, but most had too much dependence on 
&gt; the BOM, which is pointless for Riak functions. QC fits nicely because of the 
&gt; isolated, side-effect free nature of map and reduce functions, and the 
&gt; declarative nature of the tests.
&gt; 


Yea, I agree. Do you have any pointers or thoughts on conventions for 
integrating QC into a rails app? 


Since I've adopted using moonshine, I was thinking of sticking the M/R scripts 
in #{Rails.root}/app/manifests/templates/riak and then the tests in 
#{Rails.root}/qc. Then working out the devops to load the up any mr files for 
my dev/test environment.



--
Brian
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

