---
title: "Re: Open ticket for configurable R-value in MapReduce?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-12-14T09:20:25-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05936"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg05917"
author_name: "Elias Levy"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-12-14T09:20:25-08:00
---


Basho folks,

Any answer to these questions?

On Mon, Dec 12, 2011 at 9:52 AM, Elias Levy wrote:

&gt; I went through the bug database and could not find any open ticket for
&gt; having a configurable r-value in mapreduce. Is there one that someone
&gt; knows of?
&gt;
&gt; It would seem like this is a major limitation of the system. Currently MR
&gt; works in a way that essentially results in an R-value of 1. That makes MR
&gt; unreliable if you loose a node or add new nodes to your cluster. This is
&gt; particularly painful, as MR is often used in lieu for a bulk fetch API, or
&gt; when combined with Search or 2i to remove the additional round trip time
&gt; that would be required without it.
&gt;
&gt; We'd like to double the size of our cluster, but without dumping all of
&gt; the data and reloading it after we'd added the the new nodes, which would
&gt; take far too long even with the new nodes (bulk load API anyone?), this
&gt; does not seem feasible. It would result in 50% found found errors. Even
&gt; adding a single node seems unacceptable.
&gt;
&gt; How are people handling this? Can one use Riak EDS to mirror the data to
&gt; the new nodes set up as in a mirrored cluster, and once they are up to
&gt; data, add them to the production cluster? Or is there a way to add a node
&gt; to a cluster in such way that it accepts data for storage but not for
&gt; querying, then have Riak EDS populate it, and then have it start accepting
&gt; reads?
&gt;
&gt; Elias Levy
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

