---
title: "Re: Problem running riak-1.0.0pre2 list_buckets"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-09-16T07:45:20-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04759"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04758"
author_name: "Kelly McLaughlin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-09-16T07:45:20-07:00
---


Antoine,

I don't have 1.0.0pre2 installed anywhere handy at the moment, but I do have 
pre3 installed and I tested with eleveldb and it works fine for me. Could you 
download pre3 and see if that resolves the issue for you? Thanks.

Kelly


On Sep 16, 2011, at 8:08 AM, t3h wrote:

&gt; Hello all,
&gt; 
&gt; I got these errors after having upgraded to riak-1.0.0pre2 when using list 
&gt; buckets:
&gt; 
&gt; {ok, C} = riak:local\\_client().
&gt; C:list\\_buckets().
&gt; 
&gt; gives:
&gt; 
&gt; 2011-09-16 15:01:32.613 [error] &lt;0.971.0&gt; gen\\_server &lt;0.971.0&gt; terminated 
&gt; with reason: bad return value: {break,{buffer,[ ...part of my list of 
&gt; buckets... ],#Fun,999,4}}
&gt; 2011-09-16 15:01:32.711 [error] &lt;0.971.0&gt; CRASH REPORT Process [] with 0 
&gt; neighbours crashed with reason: bad return value: {break,{buffer,[...other 
&gt; part of my list of buckets... ],#Fun,999,4}}
&gt; 2011-09-16 15:01:32.767 [error] &lt;0.427.0&gt; gen\\_server &lt;0.427.0&gt; terminated 
&gt; with reason: bad return value: {break,{buffer,[...other part of my list of 
&gt; buckets... ],#Fun,999,10}}
&gt; 2011-09-16 15:01:32.842 [error] &lt;0.427.0&gt; CRASH REPORT Process [] with 0 
&gt; neighbours crashed with reason: bad return value: {break,{buffer,[...other 
&gt; part of my list of buckets... ],#Fun,999,10}}
&gt; 2011-09-16 15:01:32.937 [error] &lt;0.426.0&gt; Supervisor poolboy\\_sup had child 
&gt; riak\\_core\\_vnode\\_worker started with 
&gt; {riak\\_core\\_vnode\\_worker,start\\_link,undefined} at &lt;0.427.0&gt; exit with reason 
&gt; bad return value: {break,{buffer,[...other part of my list of buckets... 
&gt; ],#Fun,999,10}} in context child\\_terminated
&gt; 
&gt; and so on for each poolboy supervisor...
&gt; 
&gt; I tested it against a new empty cluster to be sure not to mix legacy key 
&gt; listing with new key listing.
&gt; I use the eleveldb\\_backend and objects stored have indexes.
&gt; I can list the keys in a bucket without any issue.
&gt; Am I missing something I should have changed upgrading to 1.0.0?
&gt; 
&gt; As well, riak objects used to have x-riak-index-$bucket and x-riak-index-$key 
&gt; indexes when I first attempted to use secondary indexes. I do not see this 
&gt; anymore. What is the reason for this change and should I be careful not to 
&gt; override any "built-in" indexes when writting my index headers (using the PBC 
&gt; api)?
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; Antoine
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com


\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

