---
title: "Re: Cannot Install Riak"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-06-21T10:27:49-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07737"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg07736"
author_name: "Swinney, Austin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-06-21T10:27:49-07:00
---


Hey Nick,

Not solving your problem, but I known the excited-why-wont-this-work-right-now 
sentiment. I had a riak cluster up and running in very little time using 
Centos 5.6 and the rpm's from basho (riak-1.1.1-1.el5.x86\\_64.rpm). No errors, 
and as I recall, no requirements. Adding addition nodes is no time at all. 
But then, my stuff is on ec2 using:

 RightImage\\_CentOS\\_5.6\\_x64\\_v5.6.35 (ami-991adcf0)

Best of luck,

Austin

On Jun 21, 2012, at 12:55 PM, Nick Tune wrote:

Now I've got an ubuntu VM and I'm getting this error:

Command 'generate' not understood or not applicable


On Thu, Jun 21, 2012 at 5:48 PM, Nick Tune 
&gt; wrote:


---------- Forwarded message ----------
From: Nick Tune &gt;
Date: Thu, Jun 21, 2012 at 5:25 PM
Subject: Re: Cannot Install Riak
To: Bogunov &gt;


Hello,

Thanks for the help. I made some progress and I got it working using the 1.1.2 
build.

But I wanted to try multiple nodes on local machine which requires a build from 
source. Now I'm getting more issues.

Please see here: 
http://stackoverflow.com/questions/11139149/escript-riak-1-1-2-rel-riak-erts-5-8-5-bin-nodetool

Thanks for your time. Sorry if I sound moody. This just annoyed me because I 
was so excited to play with riak and erlang. ah well - such is life.


On Thu, Jun 21, 2012 at 5:23 PM, Bogunov 
&gt; wrote:

Its possible what you don`t have one of required libraries, it seems you are 
missing something from protobuf requirements, try building from scratch 
manually.
just cd to protobuff dir and ./configure and make.
21.06.2012 19:30 пользователь "Nick Tune" 
&gt; написал:

&gt;
&gt; After pulling down riak from get, I get the following error when running make 
&gt; rel:
&gt;
&gt; ./rebar compile generate
&gt; ==&gt; cluster\\_info (compile)
&gt; ==&gt; lager (compile)
&gt; ==&gt; poolboy (compile)
&gt; ==&gt; protobuffs (compile)
&gt; make: \\*\\*\\* [rel] Error 1
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; I've had an awful experience getting riak setup. I've wasted two hours 
&gt; messing around and it still doesn't work. Please improve the experience for 
&gt; other users.
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;




\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

