---
title: "Re: webmachine error"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-12-15T09:17:46-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05965"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg05909"
author_name: "Anna Byszkin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-12-15T09:17:46-08:00
---


Ryan, thanks for a reply.

Yes, I'm using HTTP client (HTTPClusterClient).

I didn't check immediately after saving an object in Riak if the write
succeeded - I assumed it did, cause the store() method didn't throw any
exception and apparently finished without problems. The write happened
during nightly refresh and we noticed missing data the next morning, so a
few hours later. I used Firefox REST client to query Riak.

The error message I copied in the previous post can be found in error.log,
erlang.log, crash.log and console.log - but there's no other error message
in any of the logs.

We observed this problem only twice whereby the data refresh is done every
night, so I can't think of any specific reason why this error occurred.

Can you think of any way I could check why the socket has closed?

Cheers,
Anna.


On 10 December 2011 02:26, Ryan Zezeski  wrote:

&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Tue, Dec 6, 2011 at 8:16 AM, Anna Byszkin wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Java riak-client version 1.0.1.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt; You're using the Java client with the HTTP transport?
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Problem:
&gt;&gt; -----
&gt;&gt; I couldn't find a key stored in Riak. 'Stored' means that the application
&gt;&gt; call:
&gt;&gt; .store(, object.toString()).execute();
&gt;&gt; finished successfully and I found a relevant info in the application log.
&gt;&gt; However later I couldn't find this key in Riak.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt; How much later? Have you tried doing the write and then a read directly
&gt; after? Have you tried a read with curl?
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;&gt; In the error.log and crash.log files I can see:
&gt;&gt; ------
&gt;&gt; [error] webmachine error:
&gt;&gt; path="/riak/elists/84kZEElqXqNCLZ\\_ZCQcRHpTbCD5c77AREvB\\_K3jGcm4"
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; {error,{error,{badmatch,{error,closed}},[{webmachine\\_request,recv\\_unchunked\\_body,4},{webmachine\\_request,do\\_recv\\_body,2},{webmachine\\_request,call,2},{wrq,req\\_body,1},{riak\\_kv\\_wm\\_object,accept\\_doc\\_body,2},{webmachine\\_resource,resource\\_call,3},{webmachine\\_resource,do,3},{webmachine\\_decision\\_core,resource\\_call,1}]}}
&gt;&gt; ------
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Could it be a problem with the cluster configuration or maybe the client
&gt;&gt; (strange that I didn't get any exception if the store() method failed)?
&gt;&gt; Don't see any errors in syslog. What else could I check?
&gt;&gt; Has anyone else seen that (and possibly resolved ;))?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt; I'm sticking with my original response. It seems for whatever reason the
&gt; socket has closed on you. You see no other errors in any of the logs? Do
&gt; you see anything interesting in console.log?
&gt;
&gt; -Ryan
&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

