---
title: "Re: Riakaws - AWS Deployment"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-04-22T13:38:51-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00133"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg00129"
author_name: "Matthew Heitzenroder"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-04-22T13:38:51-07:00
---


Alexander, Sean-

Thank you both very much! I added your suggestions: 
http://github.com/roder/riakaws/commit/607a8185fb6e934f85a1e7afcaa418444cfd6884

Cheers,
Matt

On Apr 22, 2010, at 12:47 PM, Alexander Sicular wrote:

&gt; I would also add the following to your app.config in the innostore section:
&gt; 
&gt; {open\\_files, 100} %% Limit to 100 open file handles
&gt; 
&gt; I got that form Jon Meredith when I was having issues with the number
&gt; of fd's riak was opening. You should pick a number that's right for
&gt; you based on the number of buckets in your app. More buckets = more
&gt; inno files. Too many open files and your system goes kaboom.
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Thu, Apr 22, 2010 at 15:30, Matthew Heitzenroder
&gt;  wrote:
&gt;&gt; Interesting.... okay, well innostore wasn't ditching, but i'm making the
&gt;&gt; change anyhow. Thanks for your help Sean.
&gt;&gt; Matt
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On Apr 22, 2010, at 12:18 PM, Sean Cribbs wrote:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; If your node starts up and innostore doesn't crash, then it worked. Newer
&gt;&gt; versions of innostore will bail early if SMP is not enabled.
&gt;&gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt;&gt; Developer Advocate
&gt;&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt;&gt; http://basho.com/
&gt;&gt; On Apr 22, 2010, at 1:51 PM, Matthew Heitzenroder wrote:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Sean-
&gt;&gt; Thanks for the feedback.
&gt;&gt; Regarding -smp enable, I'm going to add that to the vm.args
&gt;&gt; Is there a way that I can verify my changed worked?
&gt;&gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt; Matt
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On Apr 22, 2010, at 6:22 AM, Sean Cribbs wrote:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Matt,
&gt;&gt; Good work! We have a couple of comments for you:
&gt;&gt; 1) "heart" is probably not the best way to keep your Riak nodes up - it has
&gt;&gt; a tendency to restart nodes that fail fatally, and doesn't behave well when
&gt;&gt; you want to shut down a node normally. You might be better off with a
&gt;&gt; traditional monitoring tool like "monit" which can back off restarts and
&gt;&gt; notify you when a node is flapping.
&gt;&gt; 2) Make sure your configuration, either via editing vm.args or via the
&gt;&gt; ERL\\_FLAGS environment variable, includes "-smp enable". Innostore won't
&gt;&gt; work without it.
&gt;&gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt;&gt; Developer Advocate
&gt;&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt;&gt; http://basho.com/
&gt;&gt; On Apr 22, 2010, at 6:46 AM, Matthew Heitzenroder wrote:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Hello riak-users
&gt;&gt; If you're an Amazon Web Services user, I'd really appreciate anyone who is
&gt;&gt; willing to review this:
&gt;&gt; http://github.com/roder/riakaws
&gt;&gt; Riakaws is just a simple way to deploy a Riak cluster in the Amazon cloud.
&gt;&gt; Thanks in advance for an feedback or pull requests.
&gt;&gt; Cheers,
&gt;&gt; Matt
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 


\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

