---
title: "Re: {error,<<\"{precommit_fail,notfound}\">>}"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-12-15T17:50:17-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01799"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg01795"
author_name: "Xiaopong Tran"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-12-15T17:50:17-08:00
---


Well, that's what I had been trying to do: delete all the objects
in the bucket and re-insert again.

So now, I can't delete the objects, and there's no delete-bucket
operation. Is that supposed to mean that I have to delete the
entire Riack db and start everything from scratch??? I hope I
got that part wrong.

Best

Xiaopong

On Wed, 2010-12-15 at 22:50 +0800, Joseph Lambert wrote:
&gt; You need to add the hook before you add the objects you want indexed
&gt; when inserting KV data. The precommit hook is what triggers the
&gt; indexing of the objects. If it's not installed when you insert an
&gt; object, it's not going to index it. 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; From the wiki: 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; "Riak Search indexing of KV data must be enabled on a per-KV-bucket
&gt; basis. To enable indexing for a bucket, simply add the Search
&gt; precommit hook to that bucket's properties"
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; "With the precommit hook installed, Riak Search will index your data
&gt; each time that data is written"
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; I believe the delete is failing because it can't find the value in the
&gt; index, so the precommit hook returns {precommit\\_fail,notfound} error
&gt; (since a delete updates the meta data of the object).
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; If you want to see index data, the index buckets start are named like
&gt; \\_rsid\\_bucketname, where bucketname is the bucket you install the hook
&gt; on.
&gt; 
&gt; - Joe Lambert
&gt; 
&gt; joseph.g.lamb...@gmail.com
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Wed, Dec 15, 2010 at 7:12 PM, Xiaopong Tran
&gt;  wrote:
&gt; I installed Riak Search, added a few JSON docs, then install
&gt; the
&gt; search hook for the bucket. Now, here are the questions:
&gt; 
&gt; 1) How can I list the indexes that have been created
&gt; for my bucket?
&gt; 
&gt; 2) After installing the hook, I can't delete my object
&gt; anymore. Here is the error:
&gt; 
&gt; 7&gt; {ok, P} = test3:init().
&gt; {ok,&lt;0.44.0&gt;}
&gt; 8&gt; riakc\\_pb\\_socket:get(P, "user\\_bucket", "jane").
&gt; {ok,{riakc\\_obj,"user\\_bucket","jane",
&gt; 
&gt; &lt;&lt;107,206,97,96,96,96,204,96,202,5,82,44,108,85,66,103,50,
&gt; 152,18,25,243,88,25,...&gt;&gt;,
&gt; [{{dict,3,16,16,8,80,48,
&gt; 
&gt; {[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],...},
&gt; {{[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],...}}},
&gt; &lt;&lt;"{\\"userid\\":\\"jane\\",\\"first\\_name\\":\\"Jane
&gt; \\",
&gt; \\"last\\_name\\":\\"Doe\\",\\"gender\\":\\"F\\",\\"joined\\_"...&gt;&gt;}],
&gt; undefined,undefined}}
&gt; 9&gt; riakc\\_pb\\_socket:delete(P, "user\\_bucket", "jane").
&gt; {error,&lt;&lt;"{precommit\\_fail,notfound}"&gt;&gt;}
&gt; 10&gt; riakc\\_pb\\_socket:delete(P, "user\\_bucket", &lt;&lt;"jane"&gt;&gt;).
&gt; {error,&lt;&lt;"{precommit\\_fail,notfound}"&gt;&gt;}
&gt; 
&gt; I can retrieve the object, but can't delete it. What's is
&gt; going on?
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks
&gt; 
&gt; Xiaopong
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 



\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

