---
title: "Re: Pruning (merging) after storage reaches a certain size?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-06-13T15:36:27-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03679"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg03678"
author_name: "Steve Webb"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-06-13T15:36:27-07:00
---


I'm going to experiment with the bitcask max\\_file\\_size and reduce it to 
80MB or so (my current files are 200+MB) so hopefully, this will force a 
merge on the files earlier and will discover the expired records. I'll 
let you know how it goes.


- Steve

--
Steve Webb - Senior System Administrator for gnip.com
http://twitter.com/GnipWebb

On Mon, 13 Jun 2011, Justin Sheehy wrote:


Hi, Steve.

The key to your situation was in my earlier email:

 One note that is relevant for your specific use: the expiry\\_secs
 parameter will cause a given item to disappear from the client
 API immediately after expiry, and to be cleaned if it is in a file
 already being merged, but will not currently contribute toward
 merge triggers or thresholds on its own if not otherwise "dead".

That is, bitcask wasn't originally designed around the expiry-centric
way of removing old data, and data that has simply expired (but not
actively been deleted) will not be counted as garbage toward
thresholds or triggers at this time. It will be cleaned up in a
merge, but will not contribute toward causing the merge in the first
place. In a use case where you only add items and never actually
delete anything, a merge will never be dynamically triggered.

It is plausible that we could add some expiry-statistics measurement
and triggering to bitcask, but today that's the state of things. You
could manually trigger merges, but that currently requires a bit of
Erlang.

I hope that this helps.

-Justin



\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

