---
title: "Re: Java client: byte arrays as keys?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-07-17T09:50:48-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07976"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg07974"
author_name: "Kaspar Thommen"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-07-17T09:50:48-07:00
---


Thanks Brian, very good news!

Kaspar
Am 17.07.2012 18:14 schrieb "Brian Roach" :

&gt; Kaspar -
&gt;
&gt; Unfortunately it's worse than that. The reason it's doing that is because
&gt; that's how the underlying, original Protobuf client is handling things - it
&gt; uses ByteString.copyFromUtf8() on Strings that are passed to store(),
&gt; fetch(), etc as the key.
&gt;
&gt; Basically, above com.basho.riak.pbc.RiakClient there's simply not a way to
&gt; use a non-UTF8 encoded String currently.
&gt;
&gt; The problem with what you propose is that it requires modifying the higher
&gt; level interfaces which will of course break code built on top of them (we
&gt; have users who have built things on top of these interfaces). This is not
&gt; something we want to do in a minor point release.
&gt;
&gt; That being said, there's a few things we'd like to change in the client
&gt; but haven't for this same reason. Along with the Riak 1.2 release we'll be
&gt; cutting the 1.0.6 release of the Java client. After that, I'd be willing to
&gt; look into what it would take to sanely allow for arbitrary byte arrays to
&gt; be used as keys for a 1.1 client release that would include other interface
&gt; breaking changes.
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; Brian Roach
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Jul 17, 2012, at 4:32 AM, Kaspar Thommen wrote:
&gt;
&gt; &gt; Brian,
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; I just identified a potential issue. In my application code all keys are
&gt; byte[] arrays (or corresponding 64 bit integers), and in order to make sure
&gt; I can generate a valid Riak key String from that byte array I convert using
&gt; ISO-8859-1. However, when looking at PBClientAdapter.store() I see that it
&gt; calls ConversionUtil.convert(), which in turn calls
&gt; ConversionUtil.nullSafeToByteString() which uses UTF-8 encoding. Hence, my
&gt; original byte array will likely be different in Riak.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; This could could lead to tricky problems like the application code
&gt; logging a byte array key that cannot be found in Riak. Do you think it
&gt; would make sense to allow the user to specify a custom String/byte[]
&gt; converter?
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Thanks,
&gt; &gt; Kaspar
&gt; &gt; Am 16.07.2012 15:51 schrieb "Brian Roach" :
&gt; &gt; Kaspar -
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Russell and I got together and discussed this a little more this morning.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; The reason it's not exposed at the IRiakClient and RawClient interfaces
&gt; is because the underlying original HTTP client API doesn't support a byte
&gt; array as a key; it only uses String. Because of this, our IRiakObject
&gt; default implementation only takes a String for a key, and our annotation
&gt; processing only works with a String as well. It was all designed around
&gt; being protocol neutral to sit on top of both of the old clients.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; That being said, what does work perfectly fine is creating a new String
&gt; from the byte array. Java does the right thing and this works regardless of
&gt; whether you are using the PB or HTTP client:
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; IRiakClient client = RiakFactory.pbcClient(); // or .httpClient()
&gt; &gt; Bucket b = client.fetchBucket("this").execute();
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; byte[] foo = { 0, 5, 120, 1 };
&gt; &gt; String key = new String(foo);
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; b.store(key, "this is my value").execute();
&gt; &gt; IRiakObject o = b.fetch(key).execute();
&gt; &gt; System.out.println(o.getValueAsString());
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; client.shutdown();
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Thanks!
&gt; &gt; Brian Roach
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; On Jul 16, 2012, at 1:01 AM, Russell Brown wrote:
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; Hi Kaspar,
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; Sorry for the slow reply.
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; On 16 Jul 2012, at 07:49, Kaspar Thommen wrote:
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt;&gt; Anyone please?
&gt; &gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt;&gt; On Jun 26, 2012 8:57 PM, "Kaspar Thommen" 
&gt; wrote:
&gt; &gt; &gt;&gt; Hi,
&gt; &gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt;&gt; The high-level API in the Java client library (IRiakClient) does not
&gt; allow one to use byte[] arrays as keys, only Strings, whereas the
&gt; underlying PBC and http APIs (e.g. com.basho.riak.pbc.RiakClient) do, via
&gt; the fetch(ByteString, ...) methods. Any reason for this?
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; Oversight or oversimplifying by me.
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt;&gt; Is it planned to add byte array keys to IRiakClient as well at some
&gt; point?
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; We should. Please will you raise an issue for it on the RJC github
&gt; repo[1] to ensure we get to it?
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; Cheers
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; Russell
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; [1] Java client issues -
&gt; https://github.com/basho/riak-java-client/issues?direction=desc&sort=created&state=open
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt;&gt; Thanks,
&gt; &gt; &gt;&gt; Kaspar
&gt; &gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; &gt; &gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; &gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; &gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; &gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;
&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

