---
title: "Re: bitcask and innostore overheads"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-07-06T13:18:16-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00683"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg00681"
author_name: "Sean Cribbs"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-07-06T13:18:16-07:00
---


Jeremy,

I'm glad to see you're still looking at Riak.

Regarding your bitcask question, that does seem to be in the correct range of 
sizes. Dave (@dizzyco) tells me the actual figure is 24 bytes + the hashtable 
overhead.

Inno does pad things to fixed-size pages, so yes, you could end up with wasted 
disk. However, I would suspect the greater concern would be excessive 
invalidation of the buffer pool from the essentially random/uniform shape of 
your key-space, making it difficult to get good throughput. Inno works best 
when keys are inserted in sequential order.

Sean Cribbs 
Developer Advocate
Basho Technologies, Inc.
http://basho.com/

On Jul 6, 2010, at 3:36 PM, Jeremy Hinegardner wrote:

&gt; Hi all,
&gt; 
&gt; I am doing some sizing estimates for a possible transition to riak of
&gt; our document store. I've mentioned it before on this list before and
&gt; in #riak and this is a snippet of a conversation I had with @seancribbs:
&gt; 
&gt; https://gist.github.com/c3838e5c421d6ab21c93
&gt; 
&gt; I have also reviewed the bitcask-intro.pdf and http://gist.github.com/438065
&gt; 
&gt; Quick and dirty info, I am looking to store billions of documents, starting
&gt; with 2 billion initially, and a linear growth of around 10 million per day.
&gt; 
&gt; The key is a 64bit number as a string (generaly about 20 bytes) and the value 
&gt; is
&gt; a text/xml document of an average size of 1.5KiB. This size long tails out to
&gt; maybe 5 MiB. 
&gt; 
&gt; Our system is write once. A key/value pair should never be overwritten once it
&gt; is initially inserted, and it is accessed fairly often for about a day, and 
&gt; then
&gt; a long tail drop off. The pair must be available for retrieval at any time.
&gt; 
&gt; == Bitcask ==
&gt; 
&gt; I went into the source of bitcask to confirm the 32 bytes per key minimum
&gt; memory requirements mentioned in http://gist.github.com/438065 and turned
&gt; up:
&gt; 
&gt; http://github.com/basho/bitcask/blob/master/c\\_src/bitcask\\_nifs.c#L37
&gt; 
&gt; If my calculations are correct, the actual memory overhead, per key using 
&gt; bitcask is 72+N bytes on a 64bit system:
&gt; 
&gt; UT\\_hash\\_handle -&gt; 50 bytes, (6 pointers and 2 chars)
&gt; file\\_id -&gt; 4 bytes,
&gt; total\\_sz -&gt; 4 bytes,
&gt; offset -&gt; 8 bytes,
&gt; tstamp -&gt; 4 bytes,
&gt; key\\_sz -&gt; 2 bytes,
&gt; key -&gt; N bytes - how big is this? is this the riak key, 
&gt; or a hash of the riak key?
&gt; 
&gt; This adds up to 72 bytes + the size of the key, per key/value in bitcask.
&gt; 
&gt; If I assume that the key is 20 bytes, then we are talking 92 bytes of memory
&gt; overhead per document. That means I can store, ~11 million documents per GiB 
&gt; of
&gt; free memory (1024^3 / 92), Or, if I have 32GiB of free ram on a machine
&gt; to dedicate to riak w/bitcask (the rest would be used for diskcache) I
&gt; can store ~373 Million documents.
&gt; 
&gt; Are my calculations correct?
&gt; 
&gt; It also does not look like bitcask pads values on disk, so there is no wasted
&gt; disk space. Is this correct?
&gt; 
&gt; == Innostore ==
&gt; 
&gt; For Innostore I'm not so worried about the memory overhead as insertion 
&gt; overhead
&gt; and wasted disk space.
&gt; 
&gt; Since InnoDB stores data in key order and our keys are esssentially random 
&gt; 64bit
&gt; numbers as strings, are we going to have a significant overhead in our
&gt; insertions? 
&gt; 
&gt; Using innostore, will there be any key/value padding on the data which
&gt; would cause an overhead per row of disk usage?
&gt; 
&gt; Also, we currently compress the data on on disk, and I would interested in 
&gt; hearing how the compression of disk pages with innostore works.
&gt; 
&gt; thanks,
&gt; 
&gt; -jeremy
&gt; 
&gt; -- 
&gt; ========================================================================
&gt; Jeremy Hinegardner jer...@hinegardner.org 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com


\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

