---
title: "Re: Problem running Innostore at Mac OS X"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-05-16T02:49:43-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00388"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg00387"
author_name: "Preston Marshall"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-05-16T02:49:43-07:00
---


I suggest you file a bug report with more details, and possibly the core dump 
or backtrace if there is one. For more info start riak in console mode, that 
way you can see it crash. You can file a bug here: http://issues.basho.com/
On May 16, 2010, at 4:44 AM, Dmitry Demeshchuk wrote:

&gt; Sorry, I was wrong. Since app.conf was reset, Riak was using kv
&gt; storage again. When I switched back to Innostore, I got the same
&gt; problem again.
&gt; 
&gt; On Sun, May 16, 2010 at 1:37 PM, Dmitry Demeshchuk  
&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt; Reinstalled Erlang from source, it helped.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Thanks!
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On Sun, May 16, 2010 at 1:13 PM, Preston Marshall
&gt;&gt;  wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt; Please ensure you are using the latest version of Erlang. I built mine 
&gt;&gt;&gt; from Homebrew.
&gt;&gt;&gt; On May 16, 2010, at 4:12 AM, Dmitry Demeshchuk wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Greetings.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; I'm running Mac OS X 10.5.8. Riak 0.10.1 is compiled and works good.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; However, when I install Innostore like described at the wiki page and
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; try to perform any operations with Riak, node goes down.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; When I start riak using `bin/riak console`, everything seems to work good:
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 100516 12:48:13 Embedded InnoDB 1.0.6.6750 started; log sequence number 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 44243
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; But when I try to get keys from a bucket, to put any data using basic
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Erlang interface (either from the other Erlang node or from the opened
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; console), Riak crashes with bus error.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; I tried to start Riak as root but with the same result. Then thought
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; that perhaps free disk space is too low (about 12 GB) and freed some
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; space (up to about 20 GB) but still get the same result. Also, tried
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; to turn SMP on and off - still no result.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; I'm going to try installing it on my FreeBSD machine, will write about
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; the results.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Best regards,
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Dmitry Demeshchuk
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; Best regards,
&gt;&gt; Dmitry Demeshchuk
&gt;&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; -- 
&gt; Best regards,
&gt; Dmitry Demeshchuk



smime.p7s
Description: S/MIME cryptographic signature
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

