---
title: "Re: Pipe worker startup failed:fitting was gone before startup"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-11-19T07:07:24-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg09347"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg09287"
author_name: "Bryan Fink"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-11-19T07:07:24-08:00
---


On Mon, Nov 12, 2012 at 12:04 PM, Cornelius Schmale  wrote:
&gt; I have some problems using riak and mapreduce queries. I’ve described the
&gt; hole problem at
&gt;
&gt; http://stackoverflow.com/questions/13345448/riak-fails-at-mapreduce-queries-which-configuration-to-use

Hi, Cornelius. Could you describe a bit, your Riak configuration?
Specifically, how many nodes are in your cluster, and what is the
ring\\_creation\\_size from you app.config?

If, for example, you're using a default setup {ring\\_creation\\_size, 64}
on a one-node development cluster, this behavior is quite likely.
155,000 items is enough to get all 64 vnodes working.

In the first case, before raising map\\_js\\_vm\\_count, those 64 vnodes are
fighting over just 8 Javascript VMs, and so some are likely to be
starved long enough to time out, which will cause the "All VMs are
busy" log message.

In the second case, after raising map\\_js\\_vm\\_count, it's likely that
those 36 Javascript VMs just aren't able to process all 155,000 items
before the query timeout arrives. The "fitting was gone before
startup" log message is saying that pipe running the query shut down
while there were still inputs arriving at vnodes.

You're not seeing either of these behaviors in the simple case with no
map function because no interaction with Javascript VMs is required.
In addition, for that case, objects are not even read off of disk,
further alleviating resource contention.

The two configuration solutions I expect will help the most are
lowering ring\\_creation\\_size, and raising the query timeout. Lowering
ring\\_creation\\_size to 16, or even 8 on a single-node cluster will
cause less contention for Javascript VMs because there will be less
attempted parallelism in the map function processing. Raising the
query timeout (should be an argument to the 'run' function, or
similar, but I'm not familiar with the riak-js client), will give the
query more time to finish before shutting down, which may be necessary
to overcome slow processing.

Rewriting your map function in Erlang should also help, since it will
be faster, and will not have the same sort of VM contention. But, I
understand, that's not as easy to using in early-stage development.

HTH,
Bryan

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

