---
title: "Re: Riak Adoption - What can we do better?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-04-19T11:37:55-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07245"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg07243"
author_name: "Alexander Sicular"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-04-19T11:37:55-07:00
---


More posts/ talks on actual use cases, agreed. The funny thing is that riak is 
actually one of the dead simplest nosql systems out there. There really isn't 
much you need to know to use it or set it up. 

Believe it or not that may be a draw back cause there isn't that much to say 
about it in practice. Although Mathias did find a way to fill a book and I have 
bloviated my way through many a presentation on it. The depth is often revealed 
in a more academic setting. 


@siculars on twitter
http://siculars.posterous.com

Sent from my iRotaryPhone

On Apr 19, 2012, at 14:21, Bogunov  wrote:

&gt; Some tutorials like "how to write a blog, e-commerce shop, forum, social 
&gt; network, etc. using riak". People are actually afraid to use it for something 
&gt; they haven't seen it was used for be cause it seems quite compex in common.
&gt; 
&gt; On Thu, Apr 19, 2012 at 10:00 PM, Dmitry Demeshchuk  
&gt; wrote:
&gt; The problem of any book is Riak rapid evolution.
&gt; 
&gt; Sometimes very cool and important features are added within a minor
&gt; release. That's generally okay, but I wouldn't read even a half-year
&gt; old book, it will contain very outdated information.
&gt; 
&gt; I'd add some cross-referencing between code (or features in general)
&gt; and the docs related to them (especially wiki pages of course).
&gt; Currently, wiki cannot keep up with the code, and probably releasing
&gt; docs updates along with pull requests could help that.
&gt; 
&gt; On Thu, Apr 19, 2012 at 9:53 PM, Evan Kinney  wrote:
&gt; &gt; Upvote for a book like this.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; I've spent a good deal of my time when evaluating Riak searching the 
&gt; &gt; Googles (and perusing the Basho git repo - thanks for that, by the way) for 
&gt; &gt; information like this. This list is a great resource (and so is the wiki, 
&gt; &gt; for that matter) but having a set of defined and sanctioned "best 
&gt; &gt; practices," as it were, in such an easily-avaialble and accessible form 
&gt; &gt; would be killer. I'm sure Packt (or maybe even O'Reilly!) would love to 
&gt; &gt; pick up something like this.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Heck, I'd even offer to help write it; my love affair for Riak is already 
&gt; &gt; at a ridiculous level as it is.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; A good example of this is the MySQL Cluster project. I'm intimately 
&gt; &gt; familiar with its internals, as I've written many patches for the engine... 
&gt; &gt; but it's hard to explain to other people (especially management). Alex 
&gt; &gt; Davies published a book through Packt that explains everything and even 
&gt; &gt; gives advanced performance tips and scenarios. I keep this on my bookshelf 
&gt; &gt; in my office and hand it to anyone who comes to me asking about NDB stuff.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; ---
&gt; &gt; Evan Kinney
&gt; &gt; Systems Architect, Research and Development
&gt; &gt; SAS Institute Inc.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; P.S.: This is what part of the alphabet would look like
&gt; &gt; if "Q" and "R" were eliminated.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; On Apr 19, 2012, at 1:37 PM, Zabrane Mickael wrote:
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; +1 for a solid book on advanced Riak usage.
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; Regards,
&gt; &gt;&gt; Zabrane
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; On Apr 19, 2012, at 7:31 PM, Mark Phillips wrote:
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; At this point Riak has been deployed thousands of times. This is 
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; excellent, but as you can imagine we here at Basho feel this is just the 
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; tip of the iceberg. We want everyone to be running Riak. The software 
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; obviously needs to solve enough problems for people to want to deploy it. 
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; However, we need to get the software into developers' hands before this 
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; happens. So the question is:
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; What can we be doing better?
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; I'm not talking so much about features in Riak itself. I'm more 
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; interested in the other resources, tools, docs, processes, etc., that you 
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; think we need to put in place or refine to take the Riak community from 
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; 1000s of users to 100,000s of users. By virtue of being on this list, 
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; you've all spent some time using or investigating Riak. As such, you're 
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; opinions and experiences would be very valuable.
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; Any comments, ideas, or thoughts you had would be great. On or off-list 
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; will work.
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; Thanks for your time. Long live the vnode!
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; Mark
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; twitter.com/pharkmillups
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; &gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; --
&gt; Best regards,
&gt; Dmitry Demeshchuk
&gt; 
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; -- 
&gt; email: bogu...@gmail.com
&gt; skype: i.bogunov
&gt; phone: +7 903 131 8499
&gt; Regards, Bogunov Ilya
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

