---
title: "Re: riak search and numeric fields"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-01-17T06:53:45-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg02011"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg02001"
author_name: "Rusty Klophaus"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-01-17T06:53:45-08:00
---


Also, there are bugs in Riak Search 0.13 where field level schema settings
are not respected during a query, so you have to manually pad the numbers at
query time.

This is fixed in the upcoming 0.14 release.

Best,
Rusty

On Sun, Jan 16, 2011 at 8:41 PM, Joseph Lambert
wrote:

&gt; Make sure you check the padding of the number. I can no longer locate in
&gt; the wiki where it said you need to pad integer types, but as far as I
&gt; remember you need to pad the integer out to at least 10 digits. You should
&gt; be able to set a custom padding size like so:
&gt;
&gt; {field, [ {name, "account"}, {type, integer}, {\\*padding\\*\\_size, 20} ]}, but
&gt; I could not make it work before with a padding size of less than 10. I may
&gt; be wrong now with the new release, but give it a try.
&gt;
&gt; Instead of 5555, use 0000005555, and it should index properly.
&gt;
&gt; - Joe Lambert
&gt;
&gt; joseph.g.lamb...@gmail.com
&gt; +86 13656213284
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Mon, Jan 17, 2011 at 6:12 AM, Gary William Flake wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Per the advice from my earlier question (about retrieving records in a
&gt;&gt; particular sort order), I've been playing with Riak Search in an attempt to
&gt;&gt; use a range query over a numeric field to get the sort order that I want (or
&gt;&gt; at least the right range).
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; For the life of me, I can't get Riak Search to index on a numeric value,
&gt;&gt; even if it is a \\*\\_num field. I know that Lucene had some issues in the past
&gt;&gt; with having to get around the standard parsers stripping out numbers, but I
&gt;&gt; had assume that since Riak Search explicitly has a numeric type in its
&gt;&gt; schema, that this would be supported out of the box.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Anyhow, I've tried every combination of setting up fields name as \\*\\_num,
&gt;&gt; with values as strings or as unquoted ints, with using different encoding,
&gt;&gt; etc. The net of it is that I can't query on anything numeric.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; What's the trick?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt; -- GWF
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

