---
title: "Re: upgrade from 0.10 to 0.13 while full cluster shutdown"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-11-16T07:27:47-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01556"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg01544"
author_name: "David Smith"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-11-16T07:27:47-08:00
---


I did some splenunking -- looks like the bulk of the config is
unchanged between 0.10 and 0.13. You \\_should\\_ be able to your config
file as is.

Obviously you should test this upgrade on a non-production cluster first! :)

D.

On Mon, Nov 15, 2010 at 10:50 AM, Colin Surprenant
 wrote:
&gt; My configuration is mostly untouched from the default, other than the
&gt; innostore config. Is there anything special involved in the
&gt; configuration migration?
&gt;
&gt; What would be the best way for me to assert the innostore storage file
&gt; compatibility between 0.10 and 0.13 without having to dig and analyse
&gt; the changelogs between these versions?
&gt;
&gt; I haven't found any comprehensive notes on the upgrade process
&gt; involved between versions. Is there anything?
&gt;
&gt; Thanks for your help.
&gt; Colin
&gt;
&gt; On Mon, Nov 15, 2010 at 11:54 AM, David Smith  wrote:
&gt;&gt; 0.10 -&gt; 0.13 is a big change; most of the pain is going to be related
&gt;&gt; to getting your configuration migrated. Storage into innostore should
&gt;&gt; be relatively unchanged, I believe. Assuming your config is migrated,
&gt;&gt; you should just be able to start it up with the same data files.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; It's obviously a good idea to backup your innostore files before you
&gt;&gt; do anything. :)
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; D.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Fri, Nov 12, 2010 at 3:01 PM, Colin Surprenant
&gt;&gt;  wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt; Hi,
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; What would be the most (time) efficient way for me to upgrade my 3
&gt;&gt;&gt; nodes cluster from 0.10 to current 0.13?
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; It is not a problem for me to completely shutdown the cluster for the
&gt;&gt;&gt; upgrade operation, unless it takes longer than a few hours.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; My cluster is configured with innostore and each node holds approx
&gt;&gt;&gt; 250G of data.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; I do not think riak-admin backup/restore is an option since it is way
&gt;&gt;&gt; too slow. The last time I checked, it did not finish dumping a single
&gt;&gt;&gt; node after 24 hours...
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt;&gt; Colin
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

