---
title: "Re: The Right erlang client?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-01-28T09:20:19-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06450"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06447"
author_name: "Sean Cribbs"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-01-28T09:20:19-08:00
---


Jeremey,

Alin is correct, the PB client is canonical (but there's also
https://github.com/basho/riak-erlang-http-client ). Were you specifically
having trouble with the internal representation (riak\\_object) leaking into
the client via MapReduce? It should be straightforward to address that
issue.

On Fri, Jan 27, 2012 at 6:08 PM, Alin Popa  wrote:

&gt; Hi Jeremey,
&gt;
&gt; Sorry, I'm not one of the 'Basho folks', like you named them :), but I
&gt; would say that Erlang client (riak\\_object) is the one used only for
&gt; internal purposes, as opposed to Erlang Pb Client, which is the one that
&gt; should you use when you're building your erlang applications.
&gt;
&gt; Nevertheless, as 'basho falks' suggests it: "The local Erlang client is a
&gt; tightly-integrated part of Riak and the Riak HTTP and Protocol Buffers
&gt; interfaces use the Erlang client internally. The primary client for code
&gt; that is not inside of Riak is the Protocol Buffers client:
&gt;
&gt; - riak-erlang-client on GitHub
&gt; "
&gt;
&gt; HTH,
&gt; Alin
&gt;
&gt; On Sat, Jan 28, 2012 at 12:18 AM, Jeremey Barrett  &gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; All, and especially Basho folks, what is the Right client to use from
&gt;&gt; Erlang? I've been using the PB client, but dealing with the strange
&gt;&gt; difference between riakc\\_obj and riak\\_object is making me question that
&gt;&gt; choice. Is there a better answer?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; If not, is there a recommended practice for dealing with the results of
&gt;&gt; map\\_identity in clients using PB?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; It seems like the distributed erlang client isn't really intended to be
&gt;&gt; used as a "client library," given that it's buried inside riak\\_kv.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Any advice would be welcome, I don't really see a lot of documentation on
&gt;&gt; best practices.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Regards,
&gt;&gt; Jeremey.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;


-- 
Sean Cribbs 
Software Engineer
Basho Technologies, Inc.
http://basho.com/
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

