---
title: "Re: eventual consistency and events"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-03-01T05:28:06-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg02501"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg02498"
author_name: "Jon Brisbin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-03-01T05:28:06-08:00
---


So the coordinators could be made to hang around, replying on quorum and other 
events, then dispatching an event when everything's been updated? I assume the 
interested code would register an event hook on the bucket properties like a 
commit hook? 

jb

On Feb 28, 2011, at 5:10 PM, Sean Cribbs wrote:

&gt; Ah, I misunderstood you. This would be an interesting addition to Riak, but 
&gt; is not in the current roadmap. The request coordinators currently reply and 
&gt; exit as soon as quorum is met, even if that's 0, so the replies from the 
&gt; vnodes never get delivered if the coordinator is gone.
&gt; 
&gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt; Developer Advocate
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; http://basho.com/
&gt; 
&gt; On Feb 28, 2011, at 6:08 PM, Jon Brisbin wrote:
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Correct me if I'm wrong but you write a high-performance app by specifying 
&gt;&gt; dw=all on every write. I'm thinking something along the lines of "take your 
&gt;&gt; time inserting the data, just let me know when you're finished". That's 
&gt;&gt; drastically different from "don't return from this call until you've written 
&gt;&gt; to every node I might potentially hit with a query".
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Sent from my iPhone
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On Feb 28, 2011, at 4:55 PM, Sean Cribbs  wrote:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; This is handled in Dynamo-style architectures like Riak with quorums. In 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Riak's case, you rely on the "W" and "DW" quorum values to determine what 
&gt;&gt;&gt; is an acceptable threshold for considering a write to be a success. By 
&gt;&gt;&gt; default, W and DW are set to "quorum", which means N/2+1 (for N=3, this is 
&gt;&gt;&gt; 2) partitions must reply that they both 1) received the write (W) and 2) 
&gt;&gt;&gt; committed the write to durable storage (DW). This allows you to lose one 
&gt;&gt;&gt; replica via outage, network partition, or overload and still have 2 copies 
&gt;&gt;&gt; available for read on the next operation. An interesting side-effect of 
&gt;&gt;&gt; this is that even though a write may appear to have failed from the 
&gt;&gt;&gt; client's perspective, some partitions may have succeeded.
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Developer Advocate
&gt;&gt;&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://basho.com/
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; On Feb 28, 2011, at 5:47 PM, Jon Brisbin wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; In the midst of a discussion about messaging and eventual consistency and 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; I'm wondering if there's a reasonable answer to the question:
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Is eventual consistency in a system that needs to know when it can start 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; querying the system for the just-inserted data not a problem if there is 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; an event triggered when this checkpoint is reached (like a publisher 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; acknowledgement) that tells the client "remember that data you inserted a 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; few cycles back? It's ready to be queried now" and takes the place of a 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; transaction?
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; The concern is that eventual consistency is bad when you need to know for 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; sure that data was persisted to the store and the system currently uses 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; transactions to ensure this.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Thanks!
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Jon Brisbin
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; http://jbrisbin.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Twitter: @j\\_brisbin
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt; 


Thanks!

Jon Brisbin

http://jbrisbin.com
Twitter: @j\\_brisbin



\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

