---
title: "Re: Riak 0.10rc1 Startup Issues"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-04-20T12:02:07-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00089"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg00088"
author_name: "Kevin Smith"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-04-20T12:02:07-07:00
---


Hipe shouldn't make a difference. The linker errors:

ld: warning: in 
/usr/local/lib/erlang/lib/erl\\_interface-3.6.5/lib/liberl\\_interface.a, file is 
not of required architecture
ld: warning: in /usr/local/lib/erlang/lib/erl\\_interface-3.6.5/lib/libei.a, file 
is not of required architecture
ld: warning: in c\\_src/system/lib/libjs.a, file is not of required architecture
ld: warning: in c\\_src/system/lib/libnspr4.a, file is not of required 
architecture

indicate the "bit-ness" of your Erlang install and the Spidermonkey and 
Netscape runtime do not agree. This causes the subsequent error when Riak tries 
to load the shared library into the Erlang VM.

How old is the Mac you're using? I've also seen problems where Erlang is 
compiled for 64 bits but Spidermonkey's build detects 32 bit based on the 
hardware.

--Kevin

On Apr 20, 2010, at 2:30 PM, Eric Gaumer wrote:

&gt; On Tue, Apr 20, 2010 at 2:23 PM, Kevin Smith  wrote:
&gt; Do you have 64 or 32 bit Erlang installed? My guess is erlang\\_js is compiling 
&gt; the Spidermonkey VM for 64 bit but you have 32 bit Erlang installed.
&gt; 
&gt; I'm running a 64 bit version of Erlang. Could it have something to do with 
&gt; hipe being enabled?
&gt; 
&gt; Erlang R13B04 (erts-5.7.5) [source] [64-bit] [smp:2:2] [rq:2] 
&gt; [async-threads:0] [hipe] [kernel-poll:false]
&gt; 
&gt; -Eric
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com


\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

