---
title: "Re: Riak Recap for March 14 - 15"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-03-17T14:51:28-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg02678"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg02676"
author_name: "Mark Wolfe"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-03-17T14:51:28-07:00
---


Wow great to see some healthy discussion around this whole subject.

First I would like to thank Jon Brisbin for providing inspiration and indeed
examples for my own work around log4j. One of the reasons I started messing
around with riak using Java was your rabbitmq log4j appender and cloud
project on github. The other was the rather convincing pitch Justin Sheehy
gave a few people while at a pub in Melbourne.

As a frequent user of the spring framework I really appreciate the work your
doing around this framework, and indeed spring-data is something I will use
in the future, however being required to use the spring stack just get a
project connecting to riak probably wouldn't be the best idea in my view.

I also think it is a good idea for the community as a whole to avoid an
overly normalized driver approach while there is so much awesome stuff going
on in the NoSQL and indeed riak space. A client which showcases this stuff
is a much better approach, albeit a duplicate in many ways of other
efforts.

This is of course just my two cents on the subject.

And lastly Abhishek I was writing an addendum to my ideas last night that
included just that idea, like other projects why would you install a load
balancer in front of a development cluster when you can make a simple load
balancer in the client. This is quite common in a lot of messaging clients
like apache activemq and hornetq ect.

Caveats to this is:
a) You would probably stick to simple algorithms as this can get complex
fast.
b) Probably best only for a single or small pool of clients as your would be
replicating the work of load balancing on every node.

This said I do agree it would be handy.

So something like:

riakClient.addHost("1.1.1.1", 8089)
riakClient.addHost("1.1.1.2", 8089)
riakClient.addHost("1.1.1.3", 8089)

Start making calls.

Time permitting I will hopefully add some of these to my own experimental
client to try out some of these ideas And after some consideration I agree
it would be unwise to wholesale change the riak client at this stage. The
work Russel has started is awesome and will make it easier in the future
to recognize the impact if and when some underlying changes are made.

Anyway I have gone and written another war and peace on the subject and
hopefully not the last one.

On Fri, Mar 18, 2011 at 12:57 AM, Abhishek Kona wrote:

&gt; Yes.
&gt; Earlier query :
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/pipermail/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com/2011-March/003461.html
&gt;
&gt; -Abhishek Kona
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On 17/03/11 7:17 PM, Russell Brown wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; I'm sorry but I don't understand, do you want the client to load balance
&gt;&gt; across a Riak cluster rather than just speak to one node?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;



-- 
Regards,

Mark Wolfe

--
I am not young enough to know everything.
--
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

