---
title: "Re: Riak crashing due to \"eheap_alloc: Cannot allocate xxxx bytes of	memory\""
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-07-05T21:29:18-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03941"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg03929"
author_name: "Jeff Pollard"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-07-05T21:29:18-07:00
---


Thanks to some help from Aphyr + Sean Cribbs on IRC, we narrowed the issue
down to us having several multiple-hundred-megabyte sized documents and one
1.1 gig document. Deletion of those documents has now kept the cluster
running quite happily for 3+ hours now, where before nodes were crashing
after 15 minutes.

I've managed to delete most of the large documents, but there are still a
handful (3) that I am unable to delete. Attempts to curl -X DELETE them
result in 503 error from Riak:

 &lt; HTTP/1.1 503 Service Unavailable
&gt; &lt; Server: MochiWeb/1.1 WebMachine/1.7.3 (participate in the frantic)
&gt; &lt; Date: Wed, 06 Jul 2011 04:20:15 GMT
&gt; &lt; Content-Type: text/plain
&gt; &lt; Content-Length: 18

 &lt;
&gt; request timed out


In the erlang.log, I see this right before the timeout comes back:

=INFO REPORT==== 5-Jul-2011::21:26:35 ===
&gt; [{alarm\\_handler,{set,{process\\_memory\\_high\\_watermark,&lt;0.10425.0&gt;}}}]


Anyone have any help/ideas on what's going on here and how to fix it?

On Tue, Jul 5, 2011 at 8:58 AM, Jeff Pollard  wrote:

&gt; Over the last few days we've had random nodes in our 5-node cluster crash
&gt; with "eheap\\_alloc: Cannot allocate xxxx bytes of memory" errors in the
&gt; erl\\_crash.dump file. In general, the error messages seem to crash trying to
&gt; allocate 13-20 gigs of memory (our boxes have 32 gigs total). As far as I
&gt; can tell crashing doesn't seem to coincide with any particular requests to
&gt; Riak. I've tried to make some sense fo the erl\\_crash.dump file but haven't
&gt; had any luck. I'm also in the process of restoring our riak bakups to our
&gt; staging cluster in hopes of more accurately reproducing the issue in a less
&gt; noisy environment.
&gt;
&gt; My questions for the list are:
&gt;
&gt; 1. Any clue how to further diagnose the issue? I can attach my
&gt; erl\\_crash.dump if needed.
&gt; 2. Is it possible/likely this is due to large m/r requests? We have a
&gt; couple m/r requests. One goes over no more than 4 documents at a time 
&gt; while
&gt; the other goes over anywhere between 60 and 10,000 documents, though more
&gt; towards the smaller number of documents. We use 16 js VMs with max memory
&gt; for the VM and stack of 32 MB, each.
&gt; 3. We're running riak 0.14.1. Would upgrading to 0.14.2 help?
&gt;
&gt; Thanks!
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

