---
title: "Re: link limitations"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-06-30T07:04:29-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00668"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg00667"
author_name: "Sean Cribbs"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-06-30T07:04:29-07:00
---


Francisco,

The answer is to make your client submit multiple Link headers, which Riak will 
join together. Watch what happens if I do that with curl:

$ curl -v -X PUT http://localhost:8098/riak/test/one -H "Content-Type: 
text/plain" -d 'Hello,world' -H 'Link: ; riaktag="next"' -H 
'Link: ; riaktag="previous"' 
\\* About to connect() to localhost port 8098 (#0)
\\* Trying ::1... Connection refused
\\* Trying fe80::1... Connection refused
\\* Trying 127.0.0.1... connected
\\* Connected to localhost (127.0.0.1) port 8098 (#0)
&gt; PUT /riak/test/one HTTP/1.1
&gt; User-Agent: curl/7.19.7 (universal-apple-darwin10.0) libcurl/7.19.7 
&gt; OpenSSL/0.9.8l zlib/1.2.3
&gt; Host: localhost:8098
&gt; Accept: \\*/\\*
&gt; Content-Type: text/plain
&gt; Link: ; riaktag="next"
&gt; Link: ; riaktag="previous"
&gt; Content-Length: 11
&gt; 
&lt; HTTP/1.1 204 No Content
&lt; Vary: Accept-Encoding
&lt; Server: MochiWeb/1.1 WebMachine/1.7 (participate in the frantic)
&lt; Date: Wed, 30 Jun 2010 14:02:55 GMT
&lt; Content-Type: text/plain
&lt; Content-Length: 0
&lt; 
\\* Connection #0 to host localhost left intact
\\* Closing connection #0

$ curl -v http://localhost:8098/riak/test/one
\\* About to connect() to localhost port 8098 (#0)
\\* Trying ::1... Connection refused
\\* Trying fe80::1... Connection refused
\\* Trying 127.0.0.1... connected
\\* Connected to localhost (127.0.0.1) port 8098 (#0)
&gt; GET /riak/test/one HTTP/1.1
&gt; User-Agent: curl/7.19.7 (universal-apple-darwin10.0) libcurl/7.19.7 
&gt; OpenSSL/0.9.8l zlib/1.2.3
&gt; Host: localhost:8098
&gt; Accept: \\*/\\*
&gt; 
&lt; HTTP/1.1 200 OK
&lt; X-Riak-Vclock: a85hYGBgzGDKBVIsjAzzwzOYEhnzWBn6T80/ypcFAA==
&lt; Vary: Accept-Encoding
&lt; Server: MochiWeb/1.1 WebMachine/1.7 (participate in the frantic)
&lt; Link: ; riaktag="next", ; 
riaktag="previous", ; rel="up"
&lt; Last-Modified: Wed, 30 Jun 2010 14:02:55 GMT
&lt; ETag: 3uMSzFK8guChtOhlvtx99g
&lt; Date: Wed, 30 Jun 2010 14:03:32 GMT
&lt; Content-Type: text/plain
&lt; Content-Length: 11
&lt; 
\\* Connection #0 to host localhost left intact
\\* Closing connection #0
Hello,world

Sean Cribbs 
Developer Advocate
Basho Technologies, Inc.
http://basho.com/

On Jun 29, 2010, at 10:07 PM, francisco treacy wrote:

&gt; Hi all,
&gt; 
&gt; We're developing social features in our app that involve Twitter-like
&gt; relations between users.
&gt; 
&gt; As we have a 'users' bucket, the initial implementation is to add
&gt; links to following users (and link followers back) in order to create
&gt; a two-way relationship.
&gt; 
&gt; User A ==== following ====&gt; User B
&gt; User B ==== follower ====&gt; User A
&gt; 
&gt; This makes sense and turns out to work perfectly fine, but I am
&gt; concerned with hitting limits rather soon. For some reason (webmachine
&gt; related?) there is an 8k limit for the Link header. I verified this
&gt; (documents with 8192b+ Link headers won't be persisted).
&gt; 
&gt; Considering average key sizes and the typical usecase of our app, this
&gt; means we can store somewhere between 100 and 150 links - max. Given we
&gt; store different types of links (not only to other users), it'll
&gt; definitely won't work for us.
&gt; 
&gt; So I guess my question is two-fold:
&gt; (a) is this limit intended? if not, how can it be eluded?
&gt; (b) are there better ways of modeling this scenario?
&gt; 
&gt; I was thinking along the lines of storing this 'followers/following'
&gt; data in an associated document instead, and feeding a link phase keys
&gt; coming from a map function.
&gt; 
&gt; Those of you who tried implementing Twitter in Riak :) ...how did you
&gt; approach the problem?
&gt; 
&gt; Francisco
&gt; 
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com


\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

