---
title: "Re: KeyFilter Usage"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-02-23T05:38:26-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06708"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06702"
author_name: "Jeremiah Peschka"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-02-23T05:38:26-08:00
---


KeyFilters filter by the key you use to identify it in Riak. That is to say the 
key in key-value.

If I key my users by name and I want to find everyone named Rajat, I would 
perform a StartsWith KeyFilter operation to find all of those records. 

The downside to KeyFilters is that they must scan every record. If you are 
using Bitcask, this isn't as much of a problem because that can will happen in 
RAM. However with other back ends, that scan will have to touch disk and you'll 
pay that I/O penalty.

Depending on your overall data size and implemntation choices, this may or may 
not be a problem for you.

I recommend looking into secondary indexes as well. This gives you the ability 
to define your own metadata however you want and use that for querying.

---
Jeremiah Peschka, Managing Director, Brent Ozar PLF, LLC
Microsoft SQL Server MVP

On Feb 23, 2012, at 12:25 AM, Rajat Mathur  wrote:

&gt; Can somebody tell me how to use KeyFilters [with/without MapReduce ] like, 
&gt; 
&gt; LogicalAndFilter,GreaterThanFilter, StartsWithFilter etc..
&gt; 
&gt; I am not able to get on what key-values do they Filter on ?? 
&gt; 
&gt; -- 
&gt; Rajat Mathur
&gt; B.Tech (IT) Final Year
&gt; IIIT Allahabad
&gt; 
&gt; 09945990291
&gt; 
&gt; Find me @ Facebook
&gt; Follow me @ Twitter
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

