---
title: "Re: Updating data in a production setup"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-04-18T06:43:18-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07223"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg07218"
author_name: "vijayakumar"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-04-18T06:43:18-07:00
---


Mark,
 Thanks for your help. I could say the number of keys would be in the
range of millions and total number of buckets is 4.

Regards,
Vijayakumar.

On Tue, Apr 17, 2012 at 9:15 PM, Mark Phillips  wrote:

&gt; Hi Vijayakumar,
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Sat, Apr 14, 2012 at 2:57 AM, vijayakumar wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi,
&gt;&gt; As our application moves from one release to another, we need to alter
&gt;&gt; the existing records in riak [Say changes like adding new field to the json
&gt;&gt; with a default value]. What's the ideal way to handle such schema changes
&gt;&gt; (if indexing is required for such fields). Is it possible to run a
&gt;&gt; mapreduce on existing buckets and update the records? I am not find any
&gt;&gt; help links for the above mentioned migration.
&gt;&gt; Riak Version:1.1
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt; The short answer is "yes, that's possible". That said, at the moment I'm
&gt; not aware of any existing code/resources that could walk you through it.
&gt; Anyone have anything they can share?
&gt;
&gt; Keep in mind that running something like this over all your data is going
&gt; to put a lot of load on your cluster and might lead to some timeouts and
&gt; interesting debugging. Out of curiosity, how many keys do you need to
&gt; update?
&gt;
&gt; Mark
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks and Regards,
&gt;&gt; Vijayakumar.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

