---
title: "Re: How many TB to be store in riak"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-02-23T15:40:58-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06718"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06676"
author_name: "Mark Phillips"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-02-23T15:40:58-08:00
---


Hi Jason,

Random reads in LevelDB won't be an issue. It's also worth noting that the
bitcask backend will do at most one disk seek per read but this comes in
exchange for keeping you key directory in RAM. I still think Level is the
way to go for you.

The 50MB file size will probably be an issue. We don't usually recommend
anything over 20MB at this point, and even that might be problematic.

Mark



2012/2/21 郎咸武 

&gt; Hi mark,
&gt; hmm you are right, I only have about 30TBs at present.
&gt; may be individual is 50MB.
&gt; There is a new requirement:
&gt; Random read any file. Is it work well?
&gt; Thanks again.
&gt; Jason
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; 在2012-02-22，"Mark Phillips"  写道：
&gt;
&gt; -----原始邮件-----
&gt; \\*发件人:\\*"Mark Phillips" 
&gt; \\*发送时间:\\*2012年2月22日 星期三
&gt; \\*收件人:\\*"郎咸武" 
&gt; \\*抄送:\\*"riak-users@lists.basho.com" 
&gt; \\*主题:\\*Re: How many TB to be store in riak
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On second thought, let's assume you have 100TBs worth of photos. (I'm sure
&gt; there are a few individual photos somewhere on the internet that come it at
&gt; 100TBs but I'm betting you don't have them).
&gt;
&gt; Riak should work well for this.
&gt;
&gt; \\* I'm assuming you'll have a lot of keys, so the LevelDB backend is
&gt; probably going to be best for local storage. We are also shipping LevelDB
&gt; with Snappy compression enabled as of 1.1, so this will help with the disk
&gt; storage requirements.
&gt; \\* Try to keep your file size under 20MB if possible.
&gt; \\* Keep in mind that 100TB with a default of 3 for a replication will yield
&gt; 300TB of raw data.
&gt;
&gt; Feel free to fire more questions as they come to mind.
&gt;
&gt; Hope that helps.
&gt;
&gt; Mark
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Tue, Feb 21, 2012 at 3:59 PM, Mark Phillipswrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi Jason,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I just want to make sure I understand your question correctly:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Do you have 100TBs of photos you are thinking of storing in Riak? Or one
&gt;&gt; photo that's 100TB?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Mark
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; 2012/2/21 郎咸武
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Hi all,
&gt;&gt;&gt; How many TB to be store in riak?
&gt;&gt;&gt; Now i have about100TB picture. I want to store with riak. But i am not
&gt;&gt;&gt; sure that is ok.
&gt;&gt;&gt; Answer me, please.
&gt;&gt;&gt; Thanks.
&gt;&gt;&gt; jason
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

