---
title: "Re: what does member_status pending means"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-08-02T08:44:12-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08162"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg08157"
author_name: "Mark Phillips"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-08-02T08:44:12-07:00
---


Hi Hrishikesh,

I assume this is Riak v1.1.4?

On Thu, Aug 2, 2012 at 12:33 AM, hs raghu  wrote:
&gt; Update:
&gt;
&gt; For some reason the ring appears to be unstable.
&gt;
&gt; Some node are unreachable intermittently. The ring includes 4 nodes (1
&gt; laptop + 2 VMs on laptop + 1 separate host).
&gt;
&gt; I did install all of them according to procedure and added them to
&gt; ring after testing locally.
&gt;
&gt; The curl call to get some key values hang intermittently, at the
&gt; 'member\\_status' command at those instances show that some node are
&gt; unreachable.
&gt;
&gt; ============================== Unreachable Nodes
&gt; ==============================
&gt; The following nodes are unreachable: ['riak@192.168.20.35',
&gt; 'riak@192.168.21.59', 'riak@192.168.21.60']
&gt;
&gt; Any hint for debugging or pointer to documentation is appreciated.
&gt;
&gt; regards,
&gt; Hrishikesh
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Thu, Aug 2, 2012 at 12:10 PM, hs raghu  wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I am exploring Riak cluster of 4 nodes. All nodes are valid nodes, I
&gt;&gt; could query data from buckets from all nodes locally.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; However, following 'member\\_status' is not clear to me.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; My queries are:
&gt;&gt; 1. I have very less data in this ring, and the data is already
&gt;&gt; replicated to each node (because I can query it locally). What the 'pending'
&gt;&gt; state?
&gt;&gt; Why only the first node to form ring (i.e. 192.168.20.81) shows
&gt;&gt; ring status 100%?
&gt;&gt; 2. Second node to join the ring shows pending 50%, what does this
&gt;&gt; mean?
&gt;&gt; 3. Similarly, 'transfers' shows that there are 3 nodes which waiting
&gt;&gt; to handoff 32 partitions. Since data is very less the handoff should have
&gt;&gt; been
&gt;&gt; completed long time back. Is there something wrong in
&gt;&gt; configuration?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I tried to look for answers into documentation, however couldn't get
&gt;&gt; any detailed information about this. Any help or pointers regarding this are
&gt;&gt; highly appreciated.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; regards,
&gt;&gt; hsr
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; root@xxxxxx:~# /usr/sbin/riak-admin member\\_status
&gt;&gt; Attempting to restart script through sudo -u riak
&gt;&gt; ================================= Membership
&gt;&gt; ==================================
&gt;&gt; Status Ring Pending Node
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
&gt;&gt; valid 0.0% 50.0% 'riak@192.168.20.35'
&gt;&gt; valid 100.0% 50.0% 'riak@192.168.20.81'
&gt;&gt; valid 0.0% 0.0% 'riak@192.168.21.59'
&gt;&gt; valid 0.0% 0.0% 'riak@192.168.21.60'
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; root@xxxxxx:~# /usr/sbin/riak-admin transfers
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Attempting to restart script through sudo -u riak
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; 'riak@192.168.21.60' waiting to handoff 32 partitions
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; 'riak@192.168.21.59' waiting to handoff 32 partitions
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; 'riak@192.168.20.35' waiting to handoff 32 partitions
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

