---
title: "Re: riak-erlang-client"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-01-10T15:31:07-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01944"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg01943"
author_name: "David Smith"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-01-10T15:31:07-08:00
---


&gt; On Fri, Jan 07, 2011 at 03:57:45PM -0800, Anthony Molinaro wrote:

&gt;&gt; some minor iolist functions).  The mainline has had some very nice recent
&gt;&gt; features, the handrolled parser was replaced with a leex/yecc one, and
&gt;&gt; support has been added for many protobuff features (like booleans, enums,
&gt;&gt; packed format, etc).   So anyway, maybe there's a way to relink the
&gt;&gt; basho/erlang\\_protobuffs into the mainline? (again I'm a bit of a git noob
&gt;&gt; so no idea if its possible to do that).

The "minor iolist" functions make a non-trivial improvement in
serialization performance, fwiw.

Is the mainline ngerakines branch? I don't see anything in there
related to leex/yecc -- am I missing something?

On Mon, Jan 10, 2011 at 3:48 PM, Anthony Molinaro
 wrote:
&gt;
&gt; I also hope you guys consider joining back with the community of developers
&gt; working on erlang\\_protobuffs so riak can be used along side other protobuff
&gt; based systems.

When we last checked, there was no active development on protobuffs.
Of course we'll be happy to work with the broader community to improve
the library. I would note, however, that it's not clear (as a
community outsider, I reckon) where the canonical branch lives.

Also, part of the reason we've maintained our own branch is related to
our usage of rebar for dependencies; the ngerakines branch doesn't
currently support this. Not sure how to resolve that one, but
something to think about.

D.

---
Dave Smith
Engineering Manager
Basho Technologies, Inc.
diz...@basho.com

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

