---
title: "Re: Riak Search - searching across all fields"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-12-18T09:14:26-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg09612"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg09611"
author_name: "Mark Phillips"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-12-18T09:14:26-08:00
---


On Tue, Dec 18, 2012 at 11:24 AM, Ryan Zezeski  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Sat, Dec 15, 2012 at 12:43 AM, Matt Painter  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; The fork of Riak used by Yokozuna is extremely minimal. It mostly consist
&gt; of bundling the yokozuna library and sending the KV data so it can be
&gt; indexed. The goal is and will continue to be to make \\_minimal\\_ changes
&gt; outside of Yokozuna.
&gt;
&gt; You could certainly combine Riak and ES. Other users of ours have done it.
&gt; Honestly, go with whatever works for you. No need to wait for Yokozuna if
&gt; you think you can get it done today with other tools. I will note, however,
&gt; that something like that will not be as tightly integrated as Yokozuna.
&gt; Which isn't to say it's bad, it's just a trade off to be aware of. E.g.
&gt; Yokozuna has built-in active anti-entropy (AAE) with Riak--when data becomes
&gt; divergent AAE will detect it and fix it for you without requiring action on
&gt; your part. You won't get that with Riak +  (without
&gt; writing your own code to do it).
&gt;

Though my heart and allegiances lie with Yokozuna, I wouldn't be doing
my job as an unbiased community manager if I didn't pass this along.

https://github.com/ChristopherBiscardi/mau5

It looks like early work on a Riak -&gt; Elastic Search River. This is
the first one I've seen released.

Mark
twitter.com/pharkmillups


&gt;
&gt; -Z
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

