---
title: "Re: Builder Version Requirement Problem in Ruby Riak Client"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-09-19T12:56:42-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04785"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04782"
author_name: "Sean Cribbs"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-09-19T12:56:42-07:00
---


Keith,

Another developer (and others before him) bugged me again this afternoon
about that problem - which comes down to generating the gem package on 1.9
instead of 1.8.x. I've regenerated the gem, bumped the version and yanked
the bad one. Sorry for the trouble.

Sean

On Mon, Sep 19, 2011 at 2:47 PM, Keith Bennett &lt;
keith.benn...@lmnsolutions.com&gt; wrote:

&gt; Sean -
&gt;
&gt; I just looked more into this, and it turns out that this was fixed, just
&gt; not in a version that I got with a gem install. I closed the issue with
&gt; this comment:
&gt;
&gt; "This was fixed in commit #086e917e67002c99fb10045b37473b8813bc1fb9 on May
&gt; 13, 2011 by jackdempsey."
&gt;
&gt; When do you think this might be available with a gem install?
&gt;
&gt; By the way, I've been experiencing some weirdness when trying to gem
&gt; install riak-client today. For example, this on my Linux VM:
&gt;
&gt; &gt;gem install riak-client
&gt; ERROR: While executing gem ... (NoMethodError)
&gt; undefined method `call' for nil:NilClass
&gt;
&gt; &gt;gem install ripple
&gt; ERROR: While executing gem ... (NoMethodError)
&gt; undefined method `call' for nil:NilClass
&gt;
&gt; &gt;gem install nokogiri
&gt; Fetching: nokogiri-1.5.0.gem (100%)
&gt; Building native extensions. This could take a while...
&gt; Successfully installed nokogiri-1.5.0
&gt; 1 gem installed
&gt;
&gt; Also, I had this problem as well, on my Mac:
&gt;
&gt; { % }: gem install riak-client
&gt; 19.Sep.11 15.25
&gt; Fetching: riak-client-0.9.7.gem (100%)
&gt; Successfully installed riak-client-0.9.7
&gt; 1 gem installed
&gt;
&gt; { % }: gem list riak
&gt; 19.Sep.11 15.26
&gt; Invalid gemspec in
&gt; [/Users/kbennett/.rvm/gems/ree-1.8.7-2011.03/specifications/riak-client-0.9.7.gemspec]:
&gt; Illformed requirement ["# 0.3.2"]
&gt;
&gt; The .gemspec file had this in it:
&gt;
&gt; s.add\\_dependency(%q, ["#
&gt; 0.3.2"])
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; Keith
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Sep 19, 2011, at 12:05 PM, Sean Cribbs wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Keith,
&gt;
&gt; Are you using bundler to manage your dependencies? It should resolve that
&gt; for you. That said, I'm open to fixing the gemspec such that you don't run
&gt; into that problem (or requiring &gt;= 3). Please file an issue on the github
&gt; tracker: https://github.com/seancribbs/ripple/issues
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt; Developer Advocate
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; http://www.basho.com/
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

