---
title: "Re: Issue in make all"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-01-10T06:27:05-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06203"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06187"
author_name: "suresh chandran"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-01-10T06:27:05-08:00
---


Thanks all for the support. I ran the tarball instead of the source :) I shall 
try these if I need to run the source again.

Thanks again
Suresh Chandran


\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
 From: Bip Thelin 
To: Sean Cribbs  
Cc: suresh chandran ; "riak-users@lists.basho.com" 
 
Sent: Monday, January 9, 2012 4:18 PM
Subject: Re: Issue in make all
 

This also has to be done for some of the deps so go through your riak/deps/\\* 
dirs and correct rebar.config accordingly.
We run (although not in production yet) R15B on Mac OSX and Debian 6.0.

--
Bip Thelin
 
Evolope AB | Lugnets Allé 1 | 120 33 Stockholm
Tel 08-533 335 37 | Mob 0735-18 18 90
www.evolope.se 

On 9 jan 2012, at 16:09, Sean Cribbs wrote:

Suresh,
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;We do not officially support R15B yet, but you can try changing the regex in 
&gt;rebar.config to include R15.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;{require\\_otp\\_vsn, "R14B0[234]|R15"}. 
&gt;
&gt;The above should do the trick.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;On Mon, Jan 9, 2012 at 9:58 AM, suresh chandran  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;I am trying to install Riak in my macbook. I installed erlang using "sudo port 
&gt;install erlang +ssl" . When i do a "make all" in riak, i get the below error 
&gt;and it quits.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;I am trying to install the source as mentioned 
&gt;&gt;http://wiki.basho.com/Building-a-Development-Environment.html. For some weird 
&gt;&gt;reason, when i install the tarball, i am not able to connect to 8091 and also 
&gt;&gt;I am not able to find the number of partitions. How do I configure the port 
&gt;&gt;where riak is running and the number of partitions in tarball? 
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;Thanks
&gt;&gt;Suresh Chandran
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; make all
&gt;&gt;fatal: Not a git repository (or any of the parent directories): .git
&gt;&gt;./rebar get-deps
&gt;&gt;fatal: Not a git repository (or any of the parent directories): .git
&gt;&gt;fatal: Not a git repository (or any of the parent directories): .git
&gt;&gt;fatal: Not a git repository (or any of the parent directories): .git
&gt;&gt;==&gt; cluster\\_info (get-deps)
&gt;&gt;==&gt; skerl (get-deps)
&gt;&gt;==&gt; lager (get-deps)
&gt;&gt;==&gt; poolboy (get-deps)
&gt;&gt;==&gt; protobuffs (get-deps)
&gt;&gt;==&gt; basho\\_stats (get-deps)
&gt;&gt;==&gt; riak\\_sysmon (get-deps)
&gt;&gt;==&gt; mochiweb (get-deps)
&gt;&gt;==&gt; webmachine (get-deps)
&gt;&gt;==&gt; riak\\_core (get-deps)
&gt;&gt;==&gt; riakc (get-deps)
&gt;&gt;==&gt; luke (get-deps)
&gt;&gt;==&gt; erlang\\_js (get-deps)
&gt;&gt;==&gt; bitcask (get-deps)
&gt;&gt;==&gt; merge\\_index (get-deps)
&gt;&gt;==&gt; ebloom (get-deps)
&gt;&gt;==&gt; eper (get-deps)
&gt;&gt;==&gt; eleveldb (get-deps)
&gt;&gt;==&gt; edown (get-deps)
&gt;&gt;==&gt; sext (get-deps)
&gt;&gt;==&gt; riak\\_pipe (get-deps)
&gt;&gt;==&gt; basho\\_metrics (get-deps)
&gt;&gt;==&gt; riak\\_kv (get-deps)
&gt;&gt;==&gt; luwak (get-deps)
&gt;&gt;==&gt; lucene\\_parser (get-deps)
&gt;&gt;==&gt; riak\\_search (get-deps)
&gt;&gt;==&gt; rel (get-deps)
&gt;&gt;==&gt; riak-1.0.2 (get-deps)
&gt;&gt;./rebar compile
&gt;&gt;fatal: Not a git repository (or any of the parent directories): .git
&gt;&gt;fatal: Not a git repository (or any of the parent directories): .git
&gt;&gt;fatal: Not a git repository (or any of the parent directories): .git
&gt;&gt;==&gt; cluster\\_info (compile)
&gt;&gt;ERROR: OTP release R15B does not match required regex R13B04|R14
&gt;&gt;make: \\*\\*\\* [compile] Error 1
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt;riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;-- 
&gt;Sean Cribbs 
&gt;Software Engineer
&gt;Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt;http://basho.com/
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;riak-users mailing list
&gt;riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

