---
title: "Re: Riak Core Question"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-05-03T13:54:41-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03213"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg03211"
author_name: "Joseph Blomstedt"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-05-03T13:54:41-07:00
---


If you want to determine if a vnode is a primary or secondary node,
you can check if a vnode owns the particular index it is handling. If
it owns the index, it's a primary; otherwise, a secondary.
riak\\_core\\_ring:index\\_owner is the function to look into. The
should\\_handoff function in riak\\_core\\_vnode serves as a good example.
Handoff is triggered when a secondary node determines that the primary
node is up.

However, I am not sure if this helps much. Unless you already have a
solution that works if you can determine this information. Of course,
there may be other approaches.

The command/sync\\_command logic inside riak\\_core does not directly
handle routing / re-routing between primary and fallback nodes. You
have flexibility in your application to route to partitions as
desired. Yes, the riak\\_core\\_apl module handles primary / secondaries,
but there is no inherent need to use that code.

So, it is entirely possible for you to have logic within your
application that is smart in choosing which {node, index} pair to send
your requests to. The idea would be to favor the actual partition
owner (ie. the primary) and only fallback to secondaries (adjacent
partitions in the ring) when the primary is down. Basically, the same
thing riak\\_core\\_apl / riak\\_kv does. However, you could have additional
book-keeping that knows where current outstanding requests are and
ensure no parallel requests.

Of course, this assumes you have somewhere to do this book-keeping,
eg. state outside of riak\\_core.

In some ways, one instance of this problem is effectively reducible to
leader election. You could always consider a set of primary/secondary
vnodes as a group and use a leader election algorithm to always ensure
a single vnode is the leader at any point -- and only send request to
that leader. The existing gen\\_leader module you can find online may
fit this bill.

-Joe

On Tue, May 3, 2011 at 1:06 PM, David Dawson  wrote:
&gt; I have a quick question regarding riak\\_core:
&gt;
&gt;        Basically I am trying to build an application on top of riak\\_core that 
&gt; allows me to spawn a session per user interaction, so I can both hold state 
&gt; and queue requests to ensure ( as best I can ) that a user will only be 
&gt; interacting with my system in a serialised manner.
&gt;
&gt;        My understandings are as follows with riak\\_core:
&gt;
&gt;        1. You obtain a list of possible vnodes that can serve your request 
&gt; based on a hash of a key which in my case is a user\\_id
&gt;        2. You then use each of the vnodes in the list to execute your request 
&gt; which in my case is 1 as I have N=1.
&gt;
&gt;        In my situation I want to kill a node ( simulate a failure ) send some 
&gt; further long running requests in that whose primary node is the one that has 
&gt; been killed, and then bring back up the dead node and send some more requests 
&gt; in with the safe knowledge that I will not end up with 2 vnodes  (  primary  
&gt; and fallback ) that are processing the requests at the same time. Has anyone 
&gt; got any suggestions how I may achieve this? as I have scoured the riak\\_core 
&gt; source code and can not find a way to test if a vnode is present on a primary 
&gt; and fallback node at the same time, or am I barking up the wrong tree and 
&gt; trying to achieve the unachievable.
&gt;
&gt;        Also I know I can not protect from a spit brain using this approach, 
&gt; although this is okay as under these rare occasions I have plans to deal with 
&gt; this in the business logic of the App.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Dave
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

