---
title: "Re: atomically updating multiple keys"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-10-30T09:43:00-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05378"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg05373"
author_name: "Les Mikesell"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-10-30T09:43:00-07:00
---


On Sun, Oct 30, 2011 at 10:43 AM, Alexander Sicular  wrote:
&gt; Greetings Justin,
&gt;
&gt; IMHO, AFAIK, IANAL, etc. "is it ok?" really boils down to whatever you're ok
&gt; with, can program, can understand, is within you're budget, can implement
&gt; and/or do all of the above within your own timeline. I think it is always
&gt; true that the number of opinions you will get is more than the number of
&gt; participants in the conversation. Ergo, filter all contributions through the
&gt; lense of: Go with what you know. Coming here for advice is fine but like
&gt; preventing wildfires, only you know your use case.
&gt;
&gt; That said, you may want to check out using a message queue to control the
&gt; asynchronous, eventually consistent data model I feel you feel you are
&gt; leaning towards.

I don't see how pushing the problem elsewhere helps. Even if your
message queue orders a set of updates in the right sequence, riak does
not have a mechanism to ensure that they go into the db in that order
and a delete might happen before the insert intended to be done first
but actually happening concurrently - unless you make the writes wait
for all nodes on every operation. I think riak has a concept of a
partition 'owner' node, but it is used only in the data migration
process for failover and node adds/removes, not to give ordinary
writes an atomic property.

-- 
 Les Mikesell
 lesmikes...@gmail.com

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

