---
title: "RE: [erlang-questions] Large scale deployments testing"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-09-23T23:15:31-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08655"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg08648"
author_name: "Zhemzhitsky Sergey"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-09-23T23:15:31-07:00
---


Hi guys,

Thanks for the information and links!

Best Regards,
Sergey Zhemzhitsky
Phone. +7 495 2580500 ext. 1246

From: Michael Truog [mailto:mjtr...@gmail.com]
Sent: Saturday, September 22, 2012 5:58 AM
To: Joel Meyer; Zhemzhitsky Sergey
Cc: riak-users@lists.basho.com; erlang-questions
Subject: Re: [erlang-questions] Large scale deployments testing

On 09/21/2012 03:00 PM, Joel Meyer wrote:
Hi Sergey,

We (OpenX) have a riak\\_core based application that's running on a 125 node 
cluster (there are also other smaller clusters). We never really tested to see 
where it would fall over (and the cluster was much smaller when it started), 
but I see no indicators that it will fall over when we add the 126th node. 
FWIW, it's running riak\\_core 0.13.0, and I assume the newer versions of 
riak\\_core have only gotten better. Answers to some of your other questions 
(based solely on my experience) in-line below.

The riak list mentioned optimism about riak clusters of 200+ nodes in a thread 
here:
http://riak-users.197444.n3.nabble.com/does-Riak-cluster-maintain-fully-connected-Erlang-network-td3695942.html

However, as mentioned in the thread, a fully connected network of nodes (fully 
connected because of the usage of distributed Erlang) does have a natural 
limit (due to the network speed) on scalability with the net tick time. You 
can always increase the net tick time, but then failures will take longer to 
detect.

So, your success may rely on your fault-tolerance requirements.

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_

The information contained in this message may be privileged and conf idential 
and protected from disclosure. If you are not the original intended recipient, 
you are hereby notified that any review, retransmission, dissemination, or 
other use of, or taking of any action in reliance upon, this information is 
prohibited. If you have received this communication in error, please notify the 
sender immediately by replying to this message and delete it from your 
computer. Thank you for your cooperation. Troika Dialog, Russia. 
If you need assistance please contact our Contact Center (+7495) 258 0500 or 
go to www.troika.ru/eng/Contacts/system.wbp 

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

