---
title: "Re: Riak Recap for 6/1"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-06-02T14:02:47-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00490"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg00489"
author_name: "Joel Pitt"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-06-02T14:02:47-07:00
---


I love these recaps :-)

A humble request though: is it possible to add linebreaks (say at 80
chars) to the IRC logs before they go on gist? They are impossible to
read online and every time I have copy paste the text into my own
editor to read them! I can continue to do this, but surely others are
having the same trouble?

Thanks,

Joel

On Thu, Jun 3, 2010 at 4:33 AM, Mark Phillips  wrote:
&gt; Morning, Afternoon, Evening to all from rainy (yet lovely) Portland,
&gt;
&gt; For today's recap: another awesome slide preso, a great blog post for
&gt; all our Russian Riakers, info on a bux fix, and some great info from
&gt; #riak.
&gt;
&gt; Enjoy -
&gt;
&gt; Mark
&gt;
&gt; Community Manager
&gt; Basho Technologies
&gt; wiki.basho.com
&gt; twitter.com/pharkmillups
&gt;
&gt; -----
&gt;
&gt; Riak Recap for 6/1
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; 1) @johnylynch released a slide preso called "Rolling with Riak"
&gt; yesterday. It's only 23 slides, but it's worth every single one.
&gt;
&gt; Check it out here ---&gt; 
&gt; http://www.slideshare.net/johnthethird/rolling-with-riak
&gt;
&gt; 2)  On the heels of @frank06's Node + Riak presentation, @kurokikaze
&gt; wrote up a lengthy piece that starts with a great overview of Riak and
&gt; then goes into some code examples using riak.js.  It's well worth the
&gt; read. [NOTE: This one is in Russian, so unless you're fluent you'll
&gt; have to use the translate feature in the upper left which gets the job
&gt; done).
&gt;
&gt; Post is here ---&gt; http://kuroikaze85.wordpress.com/2010/06/02/node-js-riak/
&gt;
&gt; 3)  jharjono raised an issue in #riak relating to list keys hanging
&gt; when a Riak node is down. As promised, a fix for this was pushed to
&gt; tip yesterday.
&gt;
&gt;    Check out commits 1294 and 1296 for more details ----&gt;
&gt; http://bitbucket.org/basho/riak/changesets
&gt;
&gt; 4) freshtonic, seancribbs, moonpolysoft, and justinsheehy had a
&gt; lengthy conversation in #riak about post commit hook, buckets, erlang,
&gt; and millions of objects.
&gt;
&gt; Check it out here ---&gt; http://gist.github.com/422603
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

