---
title: "Re: riak + hdf5 = awesome time series system?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-06-21T11:38:04-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00627"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg00622"
author_name: "Dan Reverri"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-06-21T11:38:04-07:00
---


I'm not familiar with HDF5 but Riak only exposes get/put/delete/list\\_keys
for any given backend which means other functionality from HDF5 would not be
available to Riak.

You can review a previous discussion on time series data in Riak here:
http://riak.markmail.org/search/?q=time#query:time+page:1+mid:43du3afmercobvi5+state:results

Thanks,
Dan

Daniel Reverri
Developer Advocate
Basho Technologies, Inc.
d...@basho.com


On Mon, Jun 21, 2010 at 6:36 AM, Sundberg, Patrik &lt;
patrik.sundb...@uk.mlp.com&gt; wrote:

&gt; Hi,
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; I have been looking at a lot of different alternatives for working with
&gt; time series data. The likes of kdb and fame are obviously tried, tested and
&gt; suitable solutions but also with a hefty price tag and closed source. On the
&gt; open source side I haven’t so far found a good holistic approach. What I
&gt; have found is that HDF5 is a very good and efficient library for storing and
&gt; retrieving time series data (and numerical datasets in general), but it’s
&gt; sort of a single user/single system setup, but in terms of layers on top of
&gt; it for replication, network connectivity etc I haven’t seen much.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Doing my initial reading around riak I was happy to see that there’s
&gt; pluggable backend storage and it provides a lot of the higher level features
&gt; one would want. So I put the two together and asked myself the question
&gt; “Would riak with a HDF5 storage backend make a nice system for working with
&gt; time series data?”
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; I don’t know the answer to that question yet and need to do more reading to
&gt; understand riak but I thought I’d throw the idea out there and see if what
&gt; comes back.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; The basic query would typically be “for series identified by name(s) X
&gt; (,Y,Z), give me the data for the time window between N to M”.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Regards,
&gt;
&gt; Patrik
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; ------------------------------
&gt;
&gt; The information contained in this communication is confidential and
&gt; intended only for the individual(s) named above. If you are not a named
&gt; addressee, please notify the sender immediately and delete this email from
&gt; your system. The views expressed in this email are the views of the author
&gt; and do not necessarily represent the views of Millennium Capital Partners
&gt; LLP (MCP LLP) or any of its affiliates. Outgoing and incoming electronic
&gt; communications of MCP LLP and its affiliates, including telephone
&gt; communications, may be electronically archived and subject to review and/or
&gt; disclosure to someone other than the recipient. MCP LLP is authorised and
&gt; regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
&gt; ------------------------------
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

