---
title: "RE: Re:Riak search queries via the java client"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-08-26T23:26:10-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08367"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg08366"
author_name: "Oved Machlev"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-08-26T23:26:10-07:00
---


Thanks Engel!
I got the same answer from Sean Cribbs, and tried it successfully yesterday - 
both options are working!

Thanks,
Oved Machlev
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
Get AT&T Connect for Mobile now!
Android | 
iPhone | 
iPad
 | BB

From: riak-users-boun...@lists.basho.com 
[mailto:riak-users-boun...@lists.basho.com] On Behalf Of Engel Sanchez
Sent: Sunday, August 26, 2012 20:12
To: riak-users@lists.basho.com
Subject: Re:Riak search queries via the java client

Hi Oved. If Riak search is anything like Lucene search, the correct way to 
query that would be:

Name:c1 OR Name:c2

Did you try that? I believe this also works in lucene: Name:(c1 OR c2)

Sorry to answer without actually trying this on Riak, just from my Lucene 
experience. But it's worth a try. Any attribute without a prefix is 
interpreted as that value in the default search field.

Cheers

Date: Sun, 26 Aug 2012 07:24:21 +0000
From: Oved Machlev &gt;
To: "riak-users@lists.basho.com" 
&gt;
Subject: Riak search queries via the java client
Message-ID:
 
&lt;7f9ab8052e563043bf5218bb9ade257f365ee...@isrtlvexmx2.interwise.com&gt;
Content-Type: text/plain; charset="us-ascii"

Hi,
I am trying to perform queries using the OR operator as following:
 MapReduceResult result = riakClient.
 mapReduce("some\\_bucket", "Name:c1 OR c2").
 addMapPhase(new NamedJSFunction("Riak.mapValuesJson"), true).
 execute();

I only get the 1st object in the query (where name='c1'). If I change the order 
of the query (i.e. Name:c2 OR c1) again I get only the first object in query 
(where name='c2').
is the OR operator (and other query operators) supported in the java client?



Thanks,
Oved Machlev
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
Get AT&T Connect for Mobile now!
Android | 
iPhone | 
iPad
 | BB
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

