---
title: "Re: Riak Adoption - What can we do better?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-04-19T10:55:49-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07238"
author_name: "Alexander Sicular"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-04-19T10:55:49-07:00
---


In a word: screencasts. 

Short, easy to digest, 2-5min screencasts on:

-Installation

-Usage via curl

-Step by step walk through of all params in app.conf

-Search. setting up index, querying index via command line. Explanation of 
various analyzers. 

-Secondary Index usage. Curl examples. 


The whole thing could be done as a series With each cast its own "chapter." 
update the content when something significant changes. Like the changes in 
app.conf in 1.1.x.


Godspeed,
Alexander

@siculars on twitter
http://siculars.posterous.com

Sent from my iRotaryPhone

On Apr 19, 2012, at 13:31, Mark Phillips  wrote:

&gt; At this point Riak has been deployed thousands of times. This is excellent, 
&gt; but as you can imagine we here at Basho feel this is just the tip of the 
&gt; iceberg. We want everyone to be running Riak. The software obviously needs to 
&gt; solve enough problems for people to want to deploy it. However, we need to 
&gt; get the software into developers' hands before this happens. So the question 
&gt; is:
&gt; 
&gt; What can we be doing better?
&gt; 
&gt; I'm not talking so much about features in Riak itself. I'm more interested in 
&gt; the other resources, tools, docs, processes, etc., that you think we need to 
&gt; put in place or refine to take the Riak community from 1000s of users to 
&gt; 100,000s of users. By virtue of being on this list, you've all spent some 
&gt; time using or investigating Riak. As such, you're opinions and experiences 
&gt; would be very valuable.
&gt; 
&gt; Any comments, ideas, or thoughts you had would be great. On or off-list will 
&gt; work. 
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks for your time. Long live the vnode!
&gt; 
&gt; Mark 
&gt; twitter.com/pharkmillups
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

