---
title: "Re: Pervasive replication"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-10-05T10:16:52-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01204"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg01199"
author_name: "Jason J. W. Williams"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-10-05T10:16:52-07:00
---


Throwing up distributed cloud instances for important but small data isn't that 
expensive. 

Sent via iPhone

Is your e-mail Premiere?

On Oct 5, 2010, at 10:29, francisco treacy  wrote:

&gt; I imagine that if you can afford clusters in multiple datacenters then
&gt; you should be able to afford EnterpriseDS. Or is it prohibitively
&gt; expensive?
&gt; 
&gt; I have no idea. But afaics that's Basho's revenue model.
&gt; 
&gt; Francisco
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 2010/10/5 Jason J. W. Williams :
&gt;&gt; Maybe the community can come up with a solution for those of us that can't 
&gt;&gt; afford or yet justify EnterpriseDS.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; -J
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Sent via iPhone
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Is your e-mail Premiere?
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On Oct 5, 2010, at 9:40, Dean Cookson  wrote:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Andrew,
&gt;&gt;&gt; The best way to do what you describe is to have a cluster in each 
&gt;&gt;&gt; datacenter with the multi-cluster replication feature from the EnterpriseDS 
&gt;&gt;&gt; version of Riak running between them. Replication will automatically 
&gt;&gt;&gt; propagate writes in both directions and will give you the local access 
&gt;&gt;&gt; performance you need. We recommend against having a single cluster span 
&gt;&gt;&gt; data centers as any given cluster really needs to share a low-latency 
&gt;&gt;&gt; network.
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Best regards,
&gt;&gt;&gt; Dean
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt;&gt; Dean Cookson
&gt;&gt;&gt; VP Business Development
&gt;&gt;&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt;&gt;&gt; Google Voice: +1 415 692 1775
&gt;&gt;&gt; Skype: photo\\_luddite
&gt;&gt;&gt; cook...@basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; On Oct 4, 2010, at 7:35 PM, Andrew Cooper wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Hello everyone,
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; The Dynamo replication scheme allows one to specify how many nodes a
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; change should be propagated to. But what if I want a change to be
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; (eventually) propagated to each and every machine in the cluster?
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; I can't simply specify a fixed number of nodes to replicate to,
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; because, in the general case, this is time-varying. My use case is a
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; multi-datacenter cluster with a low read latency requirement for
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; certain records (thus those records need to be present in each
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; datacenter, if not even on each machine).
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Is this currently possible, or would it require a patch? Or would this
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; be too difficult to implement with the current architecture? This
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; seems to be a problem common to all databases using the Dynamo
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; replication scheme... or is it? Thoughts?
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Andrew
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; 

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

