---
title: "Re: Pros/Cons to not storing JSON"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-06-09T14:46:58-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03629"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg03624"
author_name: "Andrew Berman"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-06-09T14:46:58-07:00
---


Ah, yes, you're right. Basically I'd have to either update all previous
record docs with the new field or I'd have to have multiple record
implementations to support the history of that particular record. That
could be really, really ugly.

Thanks Sean!

On Thu, Jun 9, 2011 at 2:24 PM, Sean Cribbs  wrote:

&gt; Andrew,
&gt;
&gt; I think you're on the right track here, but I might add that you'll want to
&gt; have upgrade paths available if you're using records -- that is, version
&gt; them -- so that you can evolve their structure over time. That could be a
&gt; little hairy unless done carefully.
&gt;
&gt; That said, you could use BERT as the serialization format, making
&gt; implementing JavaScript M/R functions a little easier, and interop with
&gt; other languages.
&gt;
&gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt; Developer Advocate
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; http://basho.com/
&gt;
&gt; On Jun 9, 2011, at 5:14 PM, Andrew Berman wrote:
&gt;
&gt; &gt; I am using Riak using the Erlang Client API (PB) and I was storing my
&gt; documents as JSON and then converting them to records when I pull them out
&gt; of Riak, but I got to thinking that maybe this isn't the greatest approach.
&gt; I'm thinking that maybe it's better to store documents just as the record
&gt; itself (Erlang binary) and then just converting the binary back to the
&gt; record when I pull them from Riak. I was wondering what the pros/cons are
&gt; to this approach. Here's my list so far:
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Pros:
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Native Erlang is stored, so less time to convert to the record
&gt; &gt; Better support for nested records
&gt; &gt; Smaller storage requirements and hence faster on the wire (?)
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Cons:
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Not readable through Rekon (or other utils) without modification
&gt; &gt; Can't use standard M/R functions which analyze the document (have to
&gt; write all custom functions using Erlang)
&gt; &gt; Not portable across languages
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Thanks,
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Andrew
&gt; &gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

