---
title: "Re: more Python client questions"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-09-05T07:45:09-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04576"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04574"
author_name: "Jonathan Langevin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-09-05T07:45:09-07:00
---


Re: 2. Not that I disagree with removing those values, but is there some
additional benefit that you're expecting by removing the static values?
(just curious)\\*

 
 Jonathan Langevin
Systems Administrator
Loom Inc.
Wilmington, NC: (910) 241-0433 - jlange...@loomlearning.com -
www.loomlearning.com - Skype: intel352
\\*


On Mon, Sep 5, 2011 at 8:47 AM, Greg Stein  wrote:

&gt; I've got a couple more questions:
&gt;
&gt; 1. Why is "pycurl" used in the http transport? What benefits does it
&gt; offer? Based on reading the code, I see no additional functionality,
&gt; so I don't understand why this complexity exists. I'd like to submit a
&gt; changeset that just removes it, but would like to understand if there
&gt; is a reason/history for using pycurl.
&gt;
&gt; 2. What is the policy around the API on the transports? As a concrete
&gt; example, I'd like to remove the HOST and PORT parameters from
&gt; RiakHttpTransport.http\\_request() (and remove them from the return
&gt; values of build\\_rest\\_path()). The parameters are always self.\\_host and
&gt; self.\\_port. Given the semantics of the transport, these would \\*never\\*
&gt; change... even by third party code that might call into these
&gt; functions. Would removing these parameters pose problems w.r.t API
&gt; stability guarantees?
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; -g
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

