---
title: "Re: Riak Heterogeneity"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-08-24T07:21:53-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00945"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg00925"
author_name: "Michael Russo"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-08-24T07:21:53-07:00
---


Thanks Justin. It should be relatively straightforward to work around this 
current limitation in our ops plan.

As a sidenote, given that Dynamo forms the basis for much of Riak's design, I 
think that it would be beneficial to publish a document outlining the design 
differences between these systems.

Best,
Michael

On 2010-08-21, at 11:24 AM, Justin Sheehy wrote:

&gt; Hi, Michael.
&gt; 
&gt; On Tue, Aug 17, 2010 at 12:52 PM, Michael Russo  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; In the Dynamo design, the number of vnodes per physical node can be tweaked
&gt;&gt; to satisfy the heterogeneity principle.
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Is there any way to do something similar with Riak?
&gt; 
&gt; This is something that we think is an important idea, and that the
&gt; underlying structure of Riak can work fine with. However, simply out
&gt; of prioritization thus far we have not yet made it easy to do this and
&gt; doing so effectively is not simple from a user point of view. I do
&gt; not know of any production clusters at this time that use anything
&gt; other than the standard near-equal distribution of vnodes.
&gt; 
&gt; I do expect that explicitly configuring different nodes to have
&gt; different "weight" will be enabled in a future release, but it is not
&gt; currently on anyone's scheduled plans that I know of.
&gt; 
&gt; -Justin


\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

