---
title: "Re: Trying to revamp the clj-riak driver"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-12-18T15:04:19-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg09624"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg09625"
author_name: "bgp2396"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-12-18T15:04:19-08:00
---


That works, thanks so much for the help! :)

--- On Tue, 12/18/12, Reid Draper  wrote:

&gt; From: Reid Draper 
&gt; Subject: Re: Trying to revamp the clj-riak driver
&gt; To: "bgp2396" 
&gt; Cc: riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; Date: Tuesday, December 18, 2012, 5:21 PM
&gt; 
&gt; On Dec 18, 2012, at 4:05 PM, bgp2396 
&gt; wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; &gt; Thanks! I did check out both of those, but as far as I
&gt; could tell neither one supported conflict resolution, or at
&gt; least it's not documented. If it is supported, do you think
&gt; you could give an example of how to do it with sumo? I tried
&gt; passing in the :vector-clock with in the map you pass into
&gt; put, but that didn't yield any results.
&gt; 
&gt; Yeah sumo documentation could use some work :). You were
&gt; right to use :vector-clock, and turns out it doesn't work
&gt; because of a bug. The good news is I just fixed it [1] and
&gt; pushed up a new release, 0.2.0. Readme is now updated and
&gt; the release should be on Clojars already [2].
&gt; 
&gt; The rest of this explanation assumes you have {allow\\_mult,
&gt; true} set as a bucket property. You can find a description
&gt; of how to change that here [3]
&gt; 
&gt; The basic workflow with sumo (and likely any other Riak
&gt; client) should be:
&gt; 
&gt; 1. GET values, which in sumo will return a seq of 0 or more
&gt; results (0 corresponds with not found, more than one means a
&gt; conflict)
&gt; 2. If there are more than 1 result, resolve the conflicts
&gt; (I'll expand on this later in the response)
&gt; 3. Update the single, resolved value with whatever you were
&gt; trying to do
&gt; 4. Write back to Riak with the vector clock returned from
&gt; step 1. (sumo will return a seq of riak objects, each of
&gt; which have identical vclocks, so you it doesn't matter which
&gt; one you choose).
&gt; 
&gt; Here's a gist that shows this more explicitly [4].
&gt; 
&gt; Now, how do you actually do the conflict resolution? The
&gt; short story is it's 'app specific', but things like CRDTs
&gt; [5] make it easier. I have a Clojure implementation of some
&gt; basic
&gt; CRDTs, called knockbox [6].
&gt; 
&gt; Hope this helps, and don't hesitate ask more.
&gt; 
&gt; Reid
&gt; 
&gt; [1] 
&gt; https://github.com/reiddraper/sumo/commit/a7f080403622e0afb31a39a2f22984df28bba220
&gt; [2] https://clojars.org/sumo
&gt; [3] http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/references/Configuration-Files/
&gt; [4] https://gist.github.com/4332614
&gt; [5] http://pagesperso-systeme.lip6.fr/Marc.Shapiro/papers/RR-6956.pdf
&gt; [6] https://github.com/reiddraper/knockbox
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; My use case right now is that I'm writing a little
&gt; proxy server in clojure to interact with riak. The client
&gt; will be getting (possibly multiple) values out of riak, and
&gt; passing in the one that it wants to be correct (possibly
&gt; changing that correct one in some way was well before
&gt; sending it back).
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; --- On Tue, 12/18/12, Reid Draper 
&gt; wrote:
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt;&gt; From: Reid Draper 
&gt; &gt;&gt; Subject: Re: Trying to revamp the clj-riak driver
&gt; &gt;&gt; To: "bgp2396" 
&gt; &gt;&gt; Cc: riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;&gt; Date: Tuesday, December 18, 2012, 3:44 PM
&gt; &gt;&gt; For a more up-to-date Clojure client,
&gt; &gt;&gt; I'd recommend looking at Welle [1] or Sumo [2]. Not
&gt; to
&gt; &gt;&gt; discourage you from doing some hacking, just
&gt; throwing some
&gt; &gt;&gt; other options out there.
&gt; &gt;&gt; 
&gt; &gt;&gt; [1] http://clojureriak.info/
&gt; &gt;&gt; [2] https://github.com/reiddraper/sumo
&gt; &gt;&gt; 
&gt; &gt;&gt; Reid
&gt; &gt;&gt; 
&gt; &gt;&gt; On Dec 18, 2012, at 3:12 PM, bgp2396 
&gt; &gt;&gt; wrote:
&gt; &gt;&gt; 
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; I'm working on updating this driver to be in
&gt; some kind
&gt; &gt;&gt; of working state:
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; https://github.com/mmcgrana/clj-riak
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; I've actually made some good progress, you can
&gt; find my
&gt; &gt;&gt; fork of it here:
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; https://github.com/mediocregopher/clj-riak
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; I've gotten all the dependencies and such
&gt; updated, and
&gt; &gt;&gt; (afaik) all of the old functionality is working
&gt; again
&gt; &gt;&gt; (although I haven't tested mapreduce).
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; Right now I'm trying to add in support for
&gt; vclocks and
&gt; &gt;&gt; conflict resolution. As it stands the driver always
&gt; passes
&gt; &gt;&gt; in the vclock as blank. I've switched to using one
&gt; of the
&gt; &gt;&gt; RiakObject constructors which has a vclock passed
&gt; in as
&gt; &gt;&gt; well, but now the code throws a
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; "NullPointerException   clojure.lang.Reflector.invokeNoArgInstanceMember"
&gt; &gt;&gt; when calling buildContent() on it. I wanted to
&gt; check on the
&gt; &gt;&gt; mailing list to see if anyone might know why this
&gt; is before
&gt; &gt;&gt; I started diving into the java code and trying to
&gt; debug that
&gt; &gt;&gt; to figure out where exactly in buildContent() it's
&gt; failing.
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; Here's a gist with relevant the relevant code:
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; https://gist.github.com/4331526
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;&gt; 
&gt; &gt;&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

