---
title: "Re: Counting the number of items in a bucket"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-11-22T00:42:14-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05704"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg05698"
author_name: "Fyodor Yarochkin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-11-22T00:42:14-08:00
---


You can try to limit input by particular subset of ranges, if that
helps. Here's my count m-r snippet:

{
 "inputs":{
 "bucket":"data",
 "index":"numero\\_int",
 "start":0,
 "end":1212
 },
 "query":[
 {"map": 
{"language":"erlang","module":"riak\\_kv\\_mapreduce","function":"map\\_object\\_value","arg":"filter\\_notfound"}
 },
 {"reduce": {"language":"erlang",
"module":"riak\\_kv\\_mapreduce","function":"reduce\\_count\\_inputs","arg":"filter\\_notfound"}}

 ], "timeout": 9000
}

hope it helps,
-fyodor



On Tue, Nov 22, 2011 at 3:26 AM, Stephen Bennett  wrote:
&gt; I have a bucket which contains images refernced by a key which is made up
&gt; from a guid. I have a number of servers in my cluster and my bucket is set
&gt; up to store 3 versions of every item in the bucket across the servers in the
&gt; cluster. I'd like to understand a little bit more about how my cluster is
&gt; performing in terms of data storage. I can find out how much space each
&gt; bitcask is currently taking up on each server, but I'd like to compare
&gt; reference this against the number of unique keys that are being stored in
&gt; the system.
&gt;
&gt; I've tried to use map-reduce methods using the erlang methods defined in the
&gt; riak\\_kv\\_mapreduce, calling them against the HTTP interface but my queries
&gt; are timing out. I've tried to extend the timeout, but it's still timing out.
&gt;
&gt; What's the most efficient way to find out how many keys exist in a
&gt; particular bucket?
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

