---
title: "Re: Erlang crashes on bulk insert"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-05-06T11:35:38-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03270"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg03268"
author_name: "Vlatko Basic"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-05-06T11:35:38-07:00
---



Hi Eric,

I just managed to make it work. I'm not sure what I did, but seems to me that 
reboot helped. Like in "good" old Windows days, reboot it and it'll work. ;-)


BTW, sasl-error.log is empty so I can't check it.


Thanks for the tip. I'll keep it in mind for future use.


vlatko


-------- Original Message --------
Subject: Re: Erlang crashes on bulk insert
From: Eric Moritz 
To: Vlatko Basic 
Cc: riak-users@lists.basho.com
Date: 06.05.2011 20:17


There's a log file in the node's root called log/sasl-error.log which
may give you more insight into what's failing. If nothing sticks out
for you feel free to send it over to me and I'll try to assist you.

On Fri, May 6, 2011 at 12:39 PM, Vlatko Basic wrote:

Hi,

I have two machines (box A and B) and have compiled Erlang and Riak on each.
Each has its own node, they are not in cluster.

I'm trying to insert goog.csv from Fast Track.

On box A all is working correctly whether inserting locally or over network
from box B), but on box B Erlang crashes whether inserting locally or over
local network.
It works for a while, but not till the end of inserts.

I'm attaching the erlang crash log, so if anyone can figure out what went
wrong, I'll appreciate it.
And any other advise is welcome as well.

vlatko

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com




\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

