---
title: "Re: riak build process erlang version detection"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-11-11T09:26:10-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05554"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg05536"
author_name: "Kelly McLaughlin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-11-11T09:26:10-08:00
---


Ivan,

The erlang version is checked in the rebar.config file. You should see a line 
like this: {require\\_otp\\_vsn, "R14B0[23]"}. 

It's strange that you end up with 2 differents erts folders in your rel 
directory. I would suggest wiping out the rel/riak directory and rebuilding. If 
you're still getting issues then it sounds like just a path problem so try to 
verify your environment and maybe just remove the R15A installation altogether. 
Hope that helps.

Kelly

On Nov 10, 2011, at 12:49 AM, Ivan Trajkovic wrote:

&gt; can anyone point me to section in the build files for riak where the erlang 
&gt; version is being checked for?
&gt; 
&gt; when I build riak on my current system in my rel/riak folder both the 
&gt; erts-5.9 and erts-5.8.4 folders are created, and riak is having trouble 
&gt; starting after that. 
&gt; the issue is that some weeks ago I build erlang R15A and installed it 
&gt; globally on my Ubuntu 11.04. after that I rebuild R14B03 and installed that 
&gt; globaly, but now Im guessing that R15A left some mark someplace thats being 
&gt; still detected by riaks build scripts, hence the creation/usage of the 
&gt; erts-5.9 folder... 
&gt; 
&gt; on a prestene Ubuntu 11.10 linode server where I built/installed R14B03 from 
&gt; the start (no R15A), only the erts-5.8.4 is created, and riak works fine and 
&gt; passes its own tests. 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; thank you
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; ps. this is in connection to my previous thread about having trouble building 
&gt; riak on Ubuntu 11.04
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com


\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

