---
title: "Re: Multiple disks"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-03-22T00:26:04-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg02698"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg02692"
author_name: "Joseph Blomstedt"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-03-22T00:26:04-07:00
---


Each vnode already opens a separate bitcask, therefore there isn't any
necessary factor preventing the desired behavior. It's just not coded
that way. While an individual bitcask must be a single directory,
there is no reason all vnodes need to open bitcasks within a shared
root directory.

Luckily, it's easy to change this behavior. In fact, I played around
with the idea awhile back. This question prompted me to find/release
the code:
https://github.com/jtuple/riak\\_kv/commit/a8ab33224651e6850aed385e4c05c1993916a3e5

That commit should apply against riak-0.14.1. It extends the bitcask
data\\_root config option to allow for multiple root paths as well as a
selection strategy (random or spread). Random just randomly chooses
one of the directories. Spread picks the directory containing the
fewest already-opened bitcasks -- although, this is a soft guarantee
since no effort is taken to address multiple vnodes choosing a
directory concurrently.

Using paths that correspond to different mounted drives should do the trick.

-Joe

riak opens a new bitcask for each vnode. Therefore, while bitcask
itself requires a single directory, forcing all vnodes to use the same
root directory is

On Mon, Mar 21, 2011 at 5:29 PM, Greg Nelson  wrote:
&gt; Hello,
&gt; We are currently evaluating Riak for an application that will store large
&gt; amounts of data in a write-heavy pattern.  We'd like to pack many disks into
&gt; each machine.  Currently, it appears that Bitcask uses exactly one directory
&gt; to store data.  What is the best way to have it use multiple disks?  Is this
&gt; something Innostore would handle better?
&gt; We'd like to avoid RAID since we'll be paying for redundancy at a higher
&gt; level with Riak (N=3, etc.).
&gt; We'd also like to avoid a JBOD type setup where a single disk failure brings
&gt; the whole node down, as we'll obviously be increasing those odds with each
&gt; disk.
&gt; What I'm wondering is, can each node distribute its vnodes across many
&gt; disks?  And if one of those disks fails, will Riak handle that appropriately
&gt; (i.e., the other vnodes continue to operate normally and hand-off data when
&gt; the new disk comes online)?
&gt; Thanks!
&gt; Greg
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

