---
title: "Re: riak deployment"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-08-13T13:46:34-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00883"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg00874"
author_name: "Jason J. W. Williams"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-08-13T13:46:34-07:00
---


Joyent makes a great service, but they are WAY overly priced. I'd
recommend a 512 SliceHost/Linode. Or a 1GB @ Voxel/SoftLayer.

-J

On Thu, Aug 12, 2010 at 10:40 AM, Alexander Sicular  wrote:
&gt; - You can not tell riak where to place buckets.
&gt; - You could set the N val on a bucket to one, and you should in the case of 
&gt; your 'big bucket'. Otherwise you will get N replicas on the same physical 
&gt; host.
&gt; -Use linode. 512 &gt; 256 = better.
&gt;
&gt; But in reality , your use case doesnt mesh well with what riak is all about. 
&gt; distributed redundancy. I would use couchdb for your 'big bucket' of data. 
&gt; Couch uses a write only log (wol) filesystem with an incremental b-tree index 
&gt; for map reduce. This may work better for you.
&gt;
&gt; -Alexander
&gt;
&gt; On Aug 12, 2010, at 6:44 AM, Orlin Bozhinov wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; I can easily wait for Riak Search to do this 
&gt;&gt; http://groups.google.com/group/mongodb-user/browse\\_thread/thread/c2563a8566591a30/b3d19f21675a899e
&gt;&gt; - instead of mongodb.  Does this deployment I have in mind make sense:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I'll get a medium (or large) Linode box for the big dataset bucket.  
&gt;&gt; Hopefully you can give me an idea about how much RAM I'll need for that.  
&gt;&gt; This is batch-generated data.  It takes time to generate, but (once added) 
&gt;&gt; it will not change.  Because of that I'd like to save some money and not 
&gt;&gt; replicate it.  I plan to have 2 other small Linode servers and run a Riak 
&gt;&gt; cluster of 3.  Can I tell Riak to keep the big bucket exclusively on the big 
&gt;&gt; server?  It will be used only for queries.  So if the server crashes, I can 
&gt;&gt; just reboot it, expecting the same data back up.  Because it's a single-node 
&gt;&gt; bucket (if that's even possible to have in a cluster), I probably still 
&gt;&gt; won't be "linking" to it from other buckets (so when it fails, the impact is 
&gt;&gt; minimal).  Or maybe I should keep it in a separate (single node) cluster 
&gt;&gt; anyway?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Cluster separation means I can run the smaller cluster elsewhere.  The 
&gt;&gt; Joyent + Riak news is very exciting!  I couldn't afford to put the big 
&gt;&gt; bucket dataset on it (another reason to have 2 clusters) and I'd have to go 
&gt;&gt; with the smallest SmartMachines for starters.  Would 256 MB RAM be good 
&gt;&gt; enough (just for Riak)?  What kind of load can that handle?  I'm also 
&gt;&gt; tempted to just run everything on Linode.  It's about 3 times cheaper (as 
&gt;&gt; far memory goes) and the upgrades are less dramatic.  Would you recommend 
&gt;&gt; that (for low-budget)?  I imagine there will be an easy (Linode -&gt; Joyent) 
&gt;&gt; Riak migration path...
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Orlin
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

