---
title: "Re: default bucket settings"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-10-09T10:14:25-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08848"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg08836"
author_name: "kamiseq"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-10-09T10:14:25-07:00
---


you know what, after another day of searching I ve found out that
(following http://wiki.basho.com/HTTP-Delete-Object.html)

 - rw - quorum for both operations (get and put) involved in deleting an
 object (default is set at the bucket level)
 - r - (read quorum) how many replicas need to agree when retrieving the
 object
 - pr - (primary read quorum) works like r but requires that the nodes
 read from are not fallback nodes
 - w - (write quorum) how many replicas to write to before returning a
 successful response
 - dw - (durable write quorum) how many replicas to commit to durable
 storage before returning a successful response
 - pw - (primary write quorum) how many replicas to commit to primary
 nodes before returning a successful response

why such description cannot be added to page about bucket configuration, it
is really weird to find it in delete object http API specification.

still I dont get difference between w and dw but I guess it is not that
important for now
pozdrawiam
Paweł Kamiński

kami...@gmail.com
pkaminski....@gmail.com
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_


On 9 October 2012 09:19, kamiseq  wrote:

&gt; thanks,
&gt; I also visited that section but it deals only with n, r and w property in
&gt; general. and reading only about n, r and w it feels like you know what is
&gt; going on, and then you see dw, rw, pr and pw and googling doesn't bring
&gt; clear explanation, so you get more and more confused.
&gt;
&gt; (heh I know casing doesn't matter :)
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; pozdrawiam
&gt; Paweł Kamiński
&gt;
&gt; kami...@gmail.com
&gt; pkaminski....@gmail.com
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On 9 October 2012 07:31, Martin Westergaard Lassen 
&gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi Pawel
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; The "Concept" wiki page (
&gt;&gt; http://wiki.basho.com/Concepts.html#Reading%2C-Writing%2C-and-Updating-Data)
&gt;&gt; has a good introduction to the most important paramters. Casing doesn't
&gt;&gt; matter, so r=R.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; The Riak Handbook has a good and deep explanation of what those
&gt;&gt; parameters are http://riakhandbook.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\*Martin Westergaard Lassen\\*
&gt;&gt; \\*Software Pilot\\*
&gt;&gt; \\*\\* \\*\\*
&gt;&gt; Trifork A/S\\*\\*\\*\\*
&gt;&gt; Margrethepladsen 4 · 8000 Aarhus C. · Denmark\\*\\*\\*\\*
&gt;&gt; Mobile +45 31 12 10 59
&gt;&gt; \\*\\* \\*\\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Den 08/10/2012 kl. 22.56 skrev kamiseq :
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Im looking for explanation what exactly r, pr, w, dw, pw, rw stands for.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Im sorry if this was already posted but I cannot find anything on
&gt;&gt; that. I tried wiki.basho.com/Riak-Glossary.html,
&gt;&gt; http://wiki.basho.com/HTTP-API.html#Bucket-Operations,
&gt;&gt; http://wiki.basho.com/Buckets.html but it only describes N, R, W.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; do I understand correctly that W property is only considered when
&gt;&gt; updating value and for first store N value is used? or is it:
&gt;&gt; replicate data N times but return success if it was persisted to W
&gt;&gt; vnodes.
&gt;&gt; if DW is durable write then what W really means? can I get successful
&gt;&gt; response after write operation without object being persisted to
&gt;&gt; durable storage??
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I must admit Im quite confused here.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; And second question, If I set r, pr, w, dw, pw, rw in app.config for
&gt;&gt; every configured node in cluster those values will not be added to
&gt;&gt; gossiped information, right?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; pozdrawiam
&gt;&gt; Paweł Kamiński
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; kami...@gmail.com
&gt;&gt; pkaminski....@gmail.com
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&lt;&gt;\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

