---
title: "Why is Riak Search using the leveldb backend?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-11-11T15:02:20-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05556"
author_name: "Elias Levy"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-11-11T15:02:20-08:00
---


I've set up a brand new cluster, configured two buckets in it, and
configured search on both. The cluster is using the multibackend, and I've
created three instances of the leveldb backend, one each for my two
buckets, and a third one as a default, just in case.

The config looks something like:

{storage\\_backend, riak\\_kv\\_multi\\_backend},
{multi\\_backend\\_default, &lt;&lt;"leveldb"&gt;&gt;},
{&lt;&lt;"leveldb"&gt;&gt; , riak\\_kv\\_eleveldb\\_backend, [{data\\_root,
"/data/riak/leveldb"}]},
{&lt;&lt;"bucket1"&gt;&gt; , riak\\_kv\\_eleveldb\\_backend, [{data\\_root,
"/data/riak/bucket1"}, other config items ]},
{&lt;&lt;"bucket2"&gt;&gt; , riak\\_kv\\_eleveldb\\_backend, [{data\\_root,
"/data/riak/bucket2"},other config items ]},

and

 {eleveldb, [ {data\\_root, "/data/riak/leveldb"} ]},

Each of bucket1 and bucket two have had their bucket properties set to
utilize the backend named after them.

The idea behind this is that we wanted to segregate data within different
buckets in the cluster, as they have different traffic patterns. It should
allow us to set leveldb parameters, such as the cache size, that are
appropriate for each set of data. We may also want to back them up at
different schedules.

So having set up this cluster, I loaded a day's worth of data into it.
 Now, when I look at the data folder I see I got data in
/data/riak/bucket1, /data/riak/bucket2, and in /data/riak/merge\\_index.
 That much I expected. But I also seem to have data in /data/riak/leveldb.

The client loading the data only inserts into bucket1 and bucket2.

I can look at the leveldb data files under bucket1 and bucket2 and I see my
data. Running strings over the leveldb data files under the
/data/riak/leveldb shows data that appears related to Riak Search. E.g.:

X-Riak-VTaga2asadaFaHakaKaraOa9aYaSa2aTaxamaQawaQaDa5awjjl
indexjjjl
X-Riak-Last-Modifiedh
$&gt;jjjh
riak\\_idx\\_docm
bucket1m
?00b1a8ce42a54d81bf46d9bb7a7b4b21\\_5661725545713369108\\_1318223203l
i\\_ag\\_tsm
+00b1a8ce42a54d81bf46d9bb7a7b4b21\\_1318204800l
+00b1a8ce42a54d81bf46d9bb7a7b4b21\\_1318204800k
i\\_bg\\_tsm
+eacc2a8e434f4498a70aa6ce904efe19\\_1318222800l
+eacc2a8e434f4498a70aa6ce904efe19\\_1318222800k


i\\_ag\\_ts and i\\_bg\\_ts are two of our indexed fields, and those are the values
being indexed. So why is Riak Search storing data in the leveldb backend?
 I thought it only used the merge\\_index backend. Is that wrong?

Elias Levy
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

