---
title: "Re: Riak Search Error - Zero Results"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-10-11T06:19:23-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05123"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg05120"
author_name: "Ryan Zezeski"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-10-11T06:19:23-07:00
---


Todd,

Just to humor me can you please paste the result of getting the bucket props
for `my\\_bucket`.

Did you enable the search flag for all nodes in the cluster?

Did you restart the nodes after flipping the config?

You can check to see if the index is growing via `du -hs /merge\\_index`. If that number is not going up while indexing then
something is definitely wrong.

Another sanity check you could try is indexing a local file in another
bucket like so;

search-cmd index other\\_bucket 

-Ryan

On Tue, Oct 11, 2011 at 12:54 AM, Todd Cullen  wrote:

&gt; Hey all,
&gt;
&gt; I've been bashing my head against the wall most of the day trying to
&gt; figure this out. I can't get search to return me any results even when it
&gt; should have some positives -&gt; http://pastebin.com/Tu6F2FEG.
&gt;
&gt; I've just upgraded my Riak install from v0.14 -&gt; v1.0. I wasn't using Riak
&gt; Search previously but have just decided to turn it on and try to get it
&gt; working with the latest release. I actually need to analyze some data
&gt; sitting in there via search (needless to say I'm very behind on jamming out
&gt; a report). I tried to track down an answer on IRC earlier today with no luck
&gt; in finding a result.
&gt;
&gt; Here's the steps I've gone through today:
&gt;
&gt; - Flipped the search configuration to true in the app.config file
&gt; - Added the precommit hook to the bucket (lets call it "my\\_bucket" for
&gt; the time being) and verified them via cURL
&gt; - Setup a script to GET and rePUT all of the KV's in the my\\_bucket and
&gt; have verified this works
&gt; - Checked the logs folder for any error/warning messages (crash.log,
&gt; error.log, console.log, erlang.log, sasl.log, etc)
&gt; - Tested search via the commandline (e.g. search-cmd search my\\_bucket
&gt; attribute\\_name:term\\_that\\_should\\_be\\_here)
&gt; - Tested search via browser -&gt;
&gt; 
&gt; http://my.awesome.site:8098/solr/my\\_bucket/select?q=attribute\\_name:term\\_that\\_should\\_be\\_here
&gt;
&gt; I'm not really sure what else I can do to fix the issue. Any suggestions on
&gt; what else I should check/verify/double check/triple check? Thanks in
&gt; advance!
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Cheers,
&gt; Todd Cullen
&gt; CTO & Co-Founder
&gt; ThoughtLeadr
&gt;
&gt; email: t...@thoughtleadr.com
&gt; phone: 415-254-0787
&gt; skype: todd.cullen
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

