---
title: "Re: Riak n00b questions"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-03-14T04:48:56-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg02629"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg02628"
author_name: "Sean Cribbs"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-03-14T04:48:56-07:00
---


Hi Ishwar,

&gt; 1. For a 3-node cluster with number of copies for each document set to two, 
&gt; is there a way in which I wish to distribute fetch requests uniformly across 
&gt; the three nodes? I realise riak internally fetches the record from whichever 
&gt; node the data is available.
&gt; This is the code I use to fetch values from keys:
&gt; client = riak.RiakClient(host, port)
&gt; bucket = self.client.bucket(bucketName)
&gt; for key in keys:
&gt; post = self.bucket.get(key)
&gt; This would send all fetches to the same node. Is it better to put a 
&gt; loadbalancer in front of the three nodes to distribute the requests 
&gt; uniformly, or is creating a client object lightweight enough that I can 
&gt; dynamically connect to whichever client?
&gt; 

Yes, a very typical configuration is to put a small load-balancer (e.g. 
haproxy) on each application server that balances request across all of the 
Riak servers. Then the client need not know about multiple servers and can 
connect to the load balancer on localhost.

&gt; 2. My familiarity with erlang and Javascript is minimal. Would somebody 
&gt; answer if the following things are doable/advisable to do?
&gt; a. Most of the processes I want to run on the data are in python and 
&gt; php. Is it possible to call these processes from erlang/javascript?

It is not currently, but we are looking into the feasibility of supporting 
other languages. However, I might say that if you're already doing Python and 
PHP, it would be worth your while (and not difficult) to learn JavaScript.

&gt; b. I've been looking for MapReduce tutorials for python client, but 
&gt; couldn't find any. Can somebody point to a sample MapReduce from python 
&gt; client, for example, to retrieve multiple records from Riak? (Given a set of 
&gt; keys [1,2,3,4], retrieve the records for these from Riak using MapReduce).

I don't know of any, but we have a decent number of Pythonistas on the list. 
Hopefully one of them can help you out.

Sean Cribbs 
Developer Advocate
Basho Technologies, Inc.
http://basho.com/

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

