---
title: "Re: Can't find docs/tutorial on secondary indexes for	riak-erlang-client"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-03-11T22:27:14-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06940"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06939"
author_name: "Mark Phillips"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-03-11T22:27:14-07:00
---


Hi Buriwoy,

Sorry for the hassle with the docs. Good to hear you're up and running. I 
scanned the thread really quickly and it didn't look like you mentioned 

http://wiki.basho.com/Secondary-Indexes.html

Assuming you've seen them, can you take 15 minutes and put together your 
thoughts on how to improve them in a wiki issue [1]. It shouldn't take anyone 
nearly this long to get up and running with any component of Riak. Our fault. 
Appreciate your help with fixing it. 

Mark

1 - https://github.com/basho/riak\\_wiki/issues/new

On Mar 11, 2012, at 18:48, Buri Arslon  wrote:

&gt; After several hours of searching, trying, getting errors ... finally I was 
&gt; able to insert secondary index with riak-erlang-client. Here is the code 
&gt; which I successfully ran:
&gt; 
&gt; %% Set some vars
&gt; {Bucket, Key, Index} = {&lt;&lt;"test\\_users"&gt;&gt;, &lt;&lt;"aldarkusa"&gt;&gt;, 
&gt; [{"qayerda\\_bin", "Qozoqta"}]}.
&gt; 
&gt; %% Connect to riak
&gt; {ok, Pid} = riakc\\_pb\\_socket:start\\_link("127.0.0.1", 8087).
&gt; 
&gt; %% Create a new riak object
&gt; Obj = riakc\\_obj:new(Bucket, Key, &lt;&lt;"Yomonlarni aldap yurgan Aldarkusa"&gt;&gt;).
&gt; 
&gt; %% Create a new metadata with secondary index
&gt; Meta = dict:store(&lt;&lt;"index"&gt;&gt;, Index, dict:new()).
&gt; 
&gt; %% Update the object we've created before
&gt; NewObj = riakc\\_obj:update\\_metadata(Obj, Meta).
&gt; 
&gt; %% Finally, put/insert the updated new object
&gt; riakc\\_pb\\_socket:put(Pid, NewObj).
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; I think Basho should update/improve the documentation. Examples in Links page 
&gt; (http://wiki.basho.com/Links.html) gave me some clues how to update metadata 
&gt; but the examples themselves were outdated.
&gt; 
&gt; Another idea is to allow users to post their examples (community content).
&gt; 
&gt; Regards,
&gt; -- Buriwoy
&gt; 
&gt; On Sun, Mar 11, 2012 at 4:14 PM, Buri Arslon  wrote:
&gt; I have some clue how to add secondary index but data types are confusing for 
&gt; me:
&gt; 
&gt; &gt; ObjNew = riakc\\_obj:new(&lt;&lt;"test\\_users"&gt;&gt;, &lt;&lt;"adm"&gt;&gt;, &lt;&lt;"My value"&gt;&gt;).
&gt; &gt; Index = [ &lt;&lt;"field1\\_bin"&gt;&gt;, &lt;&lt;"my\\_index"&gt;&gt;].
&gt; &gt; Meta = dict:store(&lt;&lt;"index"&gt;&gt;, Index, dict:new()).
&gt; &gt; ObjNewMeta = riakc\\_obj:update\\_metadata(ObjNew, Meta).
&gt; &gt; riakc\\_pb\\_socket:put(Pid, ObjNewMeta). 
&gt; \\*\\* exception exit: {noproc,
&gt; {gen\\_server,call,
&gt; [&lt;0.124.0&gt;,
&gt; {req,
&gt; 
&gt; {rpbputreq,&lt;&lt;"test\\_users"&gt;&gt;,&lt;&lt;"adm"&gt;&gt;,undefined,
&gt; {rpbcontent,&lt;&lt;"My 
&gt; value"&gt;&gt;,undefined,undefined,
&gt; 
&gt; undefined,undefined,undefined,undefined,undefined,undefined,
&gt; [{rpbpair,&lt;&lt;"field"...&gt;&gt;,[...]}]},
&gt; 
&gt; undefined,undefined,undefined,undefined,undefined,undefined,
&gt; undefined},
&gt; 60000},
&gt; infinity]}}
&gt; in function gen\\_server:call/3 (gen\\_server.erl, line 188)
&gt; 
&gt; So, I don't know what the problem is. I can only guess that index data type 
&gt; may not be correct, but it's just guess. 
&gt; 
&gt; Any ideas?
&gt; -- Buriwoy
&gt; 
&gt; On Sun, Mar 11, 2012 at 1:05 PM, Buri Arslon  wrote:
&gt; Thanks for your reply Jeremiah!
&gt; 
&gt; I guess I am "greener" than you :) 
&gt; 
&gt; Before posting to the list, I looked through riak documentation, the list. I 
&gt; did find some postings on the subject but almost all of'em were questions 
&gt; than answers. The answers I could find were so ambiguous that I wasn't able 
&gt; to use them.
&gt; 
&gt; I've tried riakc\\_obj:update\\_metadata but got this error: 
&gt; http://dpaste.com/715011/
&gt; 
&gt; So, I hoped to find a working example. I'm too new to Erlang to read the 
&gt; source and solve my problems.
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks again,
&gt; -- Buriwoy
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Sun, Mar 11, 2012 at 12:46 PM, Jeremiah Peschka 
&gt;  wrote:
&gt; Howdy Buri,
&gt; 
&gt; I'm not an Erlang expert, or even something remotely resembling competent 
&gt; with Erlang, however, I believe I have tracked down what you're looking for.
&gt; 
&gt; You can use one of the riakc\\_pb\\_socket:get\\_index functions to pull back data 
&gt; from an index. If you look at the source on the methods, you'll see that 
&gt; they're just wrappers around a MapReduce call. As far as setting the 
&gt; values... I think you'll have to make a call to riakc\\_obj:update\\_metadata and 
&gt; add the index metadata in by hand, but I could be wrong on that one.
&gt; 
&gt; If I'm wrong, hopefully someone on the list will correct my Erlang-y 
&gt; ignorance.
&gt; 
&gt; get\\_index/4 [1]
&gt; get\\_index/5 [3]
&gt; get\\_index/6 [2]
&gt; get\\_index/7 [4]
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; [1]: 
&gt; https://github.com/basho/riak-erlang-client/blob/master/src/riakc\\_pb\\_socket.erl#L677
&gt; [2]: 
&gt; https://github.com/basho/riak-erlang-client/blob/master/src/riakc\\_pb\\_socket.erl#L695
&gt; [3]: 
&gt; https://github.com/basho/riak-erlang-client/blob/master/src/riakc\\_pb\\_socket.erl#L714
&gt; [4]: 
&gt; https://github.com/basho/riak-erlang-client/blob/master/src/riakc\\_pb\\_socket.erl#L732
&gt; ---
&gt; Jeremiah Peschka - Managing Director, Brent Ozar PLF, LLC
&gt; Microsoft SQL Server MVP
&gt; 
&gt; On Mar 11, 2012, at 11:06 AM, Buri Arslon wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; &gt; Hi everybody,
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; I can't find any tutorial or docs on secondary indexes. Here 
&gt; &gt; (http://lists.basho.com/pipermail/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com/2011-October/005952.html)
&gt; &gt; it was stated that the docs would be updated but I can't find it.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; I just wanted a doc which explains how to use secondary indexes with native 
&gt; &gt; erlang client. Riak docs have examples for http api but not for erlang 
&gt; &gt; client.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Can anyone refer me to appropriate docs/tutorials?
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Thanks,
&gt; &gt; -- Buriwoy
&gt; &gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

