---
title: "Re: Searching by non-key value"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-02-17T11:06:18-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg02356"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg02355"
author_name: "Alexander Sicular"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-02-17T11:06:18-08:00
---


Hello Yury!

1. Use riak search, http://wiki.basho.com/Riak-Search.html. 

2. Use "Links" , http://wiki.basho.com/Links.html.

Best, 
Alexander

On Feb 17, 2011, at 1:42 PM, Yury Dorofeev wrote:

&gt; Hi!
&gt; I have two questions. My first question is how to make the searching
&gt; process by non-key value efficient?
&gt; More details. I will use Erlang notation such as we are coding with Erlang:
&gt; we have Bucket = "User" which contains lots of users with Key =
&gt; username and Value = [{"FirstName", value}, {"SecondName", value},
&gt; {"e-mail", value}].
&gt; I want to make a search "get all users whose FirstName='John' ". The
&gt; bucket "User" is huge! I do not want to get all the possible
&gt; objects(keys) from that bucket and apply Map and Reduce functions to
&gt; them AFTER. It will be extremely expensive! Is it possible to make
&gt; such a smart request without "post" request processing?
&gt; 
&gt; My second question is how to make a relation between 2 or more Buckets
&gt; and get the data from them in 1 request.
&gt; Example. Bucket = "User", Bucket="Department". One user can be
&gt; registered in many departments. I need to get information about all
&gt; departments for the certain user.
&gt; In SQL db this is not a problem. But I do not have an experience with
&gt; key-value store db.
&gt; 
&gt; Best regards, Yury Dorofeev
&gt; Uppsala University, Sweden
&gt; 
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com


\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

