---
title: "Re: Possibility of a CAS API"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-02-25T17:24:56-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06746"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06745"
author_name: "Reid Draper"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-02-25T17:24:56-08:00
---



On Feb 25, 2012, at 8:18 PM, Armon Dadgar wrote:

&gt; On Feb 24, 2012, at 7:46 PM, Reid Draper wrote:
&gt;&gt; The problem is that amongst all replicas for a particular key,
&gt;&gt; operations are not serializable. Put another way, if there
&gt;&gt; are concurrent writes to three replicas,
&gt;&gt; there is no way to figure out a total ordering for the actions.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; It's also important to note that even when you set W=N
&gt;&gt; for a write, it's possible that 1 write could succeed
&gt;&gt; and 2 could fail. The succeeding write is \\_not\\_ "rolled back"
&gt;&gt; when this happens. The user will see an error message
&gt;&gt; that the write didn't succeed on all replicas.
&gt; 
&gt; Got it. I was unsure how "If-Unmodified-Since" and "If-None-Match"
&gt; were implemented, but that makes sense given Riak's architecture.
&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; I'm not convinced that a CAS operation is inevitably subject to data races.
&gt;&gt;&gt; There are proven techniques for avoiding races at the cost of latency,
&gt;&gt;&gt; which is acceptable in certain situations.
&gt;&gt; Correct, but as far as I know, there is no way to build a CAS system
&gt;&gt; on top of the primitives provided by the Riak public API. You need
&gt;&gt; a point of serialization amongst all of the replicas (for a particular key),
&gt;&gt; which Riak does not provide, for availability reasons.
&gt; 
&gt; I think a point of serialization is not needed here. It should be sufficient
&gt; to add a new internal API for nodes to handle a two-phase commit, and
&gt; then the transaction coordinator (running on whatever node you make
&gt; the request to) can contain the logic to carry out the transaction.
If I understand you correctly, the "transaction coordinator" would
be a point of serialization.
&gt; 
&gt; I totally understand that under the current architecture and exposed
&gt; API's of Riak KV it is not possible.


\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

