---
title: "Re: riak-erlang-client issue with Riak EE 1.2"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-09-07T07:55:55-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08468"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg08307"
author_name: "Ryan Zezeski"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-09-07T07:55:55-07:00
---


Julian,

On Thu, Aug 16, 2012 at 6:51 PM, Julian  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; One of the intriguing things I find is that the exception is listed as
&gt; occuring in one of my own processes that is doing json decoding, however I
&gt; have checked the json by saving it to a file and it does not contain the
&gt; data shown inside the 'struct' in the exception. The only explanation I can
&gt; come up with is that the badmatch is occurring within riakc\\_pb socket and
&gt; was triggered by my call to riakc\\_pb\\_socket:search/6, and the process link
&gt; is somehow influencing the crash report.
&gt;

Links don't influence crash reports. They create a dependency among
processes so that if one crashes the other knows.

That struct in your trace is a Riak Search result which has already been
decoded. It is wrapped in a 2-tuple which you are passing to be decoded.
 This seems like a blatant error. What I can't explain is why you are
seeing badmatch and not case\\_clause, but maybe mochijson code has changed.


&gt; =CRASH REPORT==== 16-Aug-2012::21:44:52 ===
&gt; crasher:
&gt; initial call: xx\\_acl\\_query:init/1
&gt; pid: &lt;0.159.0&gt;
&gt; registered\\_name: []
&gt; exception exit: {{badmatch,
&gt; {not\\_found,
&gt;
&gt; {&lt;&lt;"a65796222ea26bb7b355bf140dbd5b72e81efee1"&gt;&gt;,
&gt; &lt;&lt;"000018e5-accf-fff1-8123-1efee1"&gt;&gt;},
&gt; {struct,
&gt; [{p,[0]},
&gt; {&lt;&lt;"account\\_id"&gt;&gt;,[&lt;&lt;"0000005427"&gt;&gt;]},
&gt; {&lt;&lt;"account\\_type\\_id"&gt;&gt;,[&lt;&lt;"3"&gt;&gt;]},
&gt; {&lt;&lt;"id"&gt;&gt;,[&lt;&lt;"6373"&gt;&gt;]},
&gt; {&lt;&lt;"status"&gt;&gt;,[&lt;&lt;"Deleted"&gt;&gt;]},
&gt; {&lt;&lt;"type"&gt;&gt;,[&lt;&lt;"account"&gt;&gt;]},
&gt; {score,[1.0]}]}}},
&gt; [{mochijson2,tokenize,2},
&gt; {mochijson2,decode1,2},
&gt; {mochijson2,json\\_decode,2},
&gt; {lists,map,2},
&gt; {lists,map,2},
&gt; {xx\\_acl\\_tree,from\\_json,2},
&gt; {xx\\_acl\\_query,load\\_instance\\_,2},
&gt; {xx\\_acl\\_query,bootstrap\\_accounts,1}]}
&gt; in function gen\\_server:init\\_it/6
&gt; ancestors: [xx\\_cache\\_sup,xx\\_acl\\_sup,&lt;0.108.0&gt;]
&gt; messages: []
&gt; links: [&lt;0.132.0&gt;]
&gt; dictionary: []
&gt; trap\\_exit: true
&gt; status: running
&gt; heap\\_size: 832040
&gt; stack\\_size: 24
&gt; reductions: 30690459
&gt; neighbours:
&gt;
&gt;
-Z
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

