---
title: "RE: Stopping/Starting Riak."
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-01-13T20:38:31-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg09810"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg09807"
author_name: "Kevin Burton"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-01-13T20:38:31-08:00
---


The problem seemed to go away. I was some other password request. Sudo
password requests always have the string '[sudo]' in it so I can tell where
it came from. This prompt just asked 'Password: '. Anyway I cannot reproduce
it now so I guess it is resolved. Thank you and sorry for the 'false alarm'.

-----Original Message-----
From: Richard Shaw [mailto:rich...@basho.com] 
Sent: Saturday, January 12, 2013 8:22 PM
To: Kevin Burton
Cc: Justin Sheehy; riak-users
Subject: Re: Stopping/Starting Riak.

Hi Kevin

Try:

sudo su -

Then:

/etc/init.d/riak stop

What happens and what's the output?

Regards

Richard

On Sat, Jan 12, 2013 at 3:35 PM, Kevin Burton 
wrote:
&gt; It is not sudo. I have already entered the password for sudo at this
point.
&gt;
&gt; -----Original Message-----
&gt; From: Justin Sheehy [mailto:jus...@basho.com]
&gt; Sent: Saturday, January 12, 2013 9:30 AM
&gt; To: Kevin Burton
&gt; Cc: riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; Subject: Re: Stopping/Starting Riak.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Jan 12, 2013, at 10:26 AM, Kevin Burton wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; I noticed that I have no problem with 'sudo /etc/init.d/riak stop'. 
&gt;&gt; But,
&gt; when I try to start the process with 'sudo /etc/init.d/riak start' I 
&gt; am met with a prompt for a password. What is the password? I don't 
&gt; recall setting a password.
&gt;
&gt; That is sudo, not Riak, asking for your password. You should use the 
&gt; same password that you use to log in to that machine.
&gt;
&gt; -Justin
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com


\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

