---
title: "Re: [ANN] Wiki reorganization"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-09-09T07:52:52-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04638"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04637"
author_name: "Jonathan Langevin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-09-09T07:52:52-07:00
---


Sounds exciting, this was a much-needed change!\\*

 
 Jonathan Langevin
Systems Administrator
Loom Inc.
Wilmington, NC: (910) 241-0433 - jlange...@loomlearning.com -
www.loomlearning.com - Skype: intel352
\\*


On Fri, Sep 9, 2011 at 10:47 AM, Sean Cribbs  wrote:

&gt; Riak users,
&gt;
&gt; Since late June, the other Developer Advocates and I have been quietly
&gt; working on a huge reorganization of the Riak wiki. We intend to publish
&gt; this new organization today. The reorganization had these goals:
&gt;
&gt; 1. Feel more organized and more like a technical manual, less like a
&gt; smattering of loosely-related articles.
&gt; 2. Deal with the sidebar explosion problem. The tree was getting too
&gt; long and too wide.
&gt; 3. Have clear places for new content and clear separation of purpose
&gt; for the sections.
&gt; 4. Become a central place for Basho software documentation that is not
&gt; just Riak. This started with the addition of Webmachine.
&gt;
&gt; To achieve this goal, we have deepened the structure of the wiki such that
&gt; pages are better logically grouped. Sections include "breadcrumbs" above the
&gt; main article title so that you can tell where you are, while the sidebar
&gt; will only have links pertinent to that section. We have broken the Riak
&gt; documentation into four primary sections:
&gt;
&gt; - \\*Installation. \\*As before, this covers how to install Riak and/or
&gt; Erlang on your favorite platform.
&gt; - \\*Concepts\\*. This is most of the content of "How Things Work", but
&gt; splits it out to focus on \\*conceptual\\* items around Riak, removing how
&gt; to develop against it or operate it in production. There are a number of 
&gt; new
&gt; pages in this section that cover some items that were spread thinly about
&gt; before.
&gt; - \\*Developers\\*. This section mostly contains client drivers and the
&gt; descriptions of the client APIs.
&gt; - \\*Operations.\\* This section contains all the previous "Best Practices"
&gt; things plus items on configuration, command line tools, and capacity
&gt; planning.
&gt;
&gt; We hope this new organization will be helpful and not too disorienting.
&gt; Once we have published the new organization, we'll start adding content
&gt; pertinent to the 1.0 release. There are still a number of rough edges which
&gt; we will address along the way -- documentation is never finished -- and we
&gt; will also likely address the visual aspects with some help from our UI
&gt; designer John Newman. As always, we appreciate pull-requests to correct
&gt; errors and add new content.
&gt;
&gt; Cheers,
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt; Developer Advocate
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; http://www.basho.com/
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

