---
title: "Re: Riak 1.0 pre-release series"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-09-08T06:39:24-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04622"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04618"
author_name: "Jeremiah Peschka"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-09-08T06:39:24-07:00
---


For those wanting source access, you can always clone master and then use the 
following command to check out the tag for the 1.0 pre 1 source:

git co riak-1.0.pre1 -b riak10p1
---
Jeremiah Peschka - Founder, Brent Ozar PLF, LLC
Microsoft SQL Server MVP

On Sep 8, 2011, at 4:52 AM, Greg Stein wrote:

&gt; On Thu, Sep 8, 2011 at 07:47, David Smith  wrote:
&gt;&gt; On Thu, Sep 8, 2011 at 5:41 AM, Greg Stein  wrote:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; I just checked out the link (provided below) and did not find a
&gt;&gt;&gt; \\*source\\* distribution. Could you work that into the distribution?
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Yes, there should be one of those -- will ping Jared.
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks!
&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; In my particular situation, I'm working on Mac OS 10.5 (Leopard) and
&gt;&gt;&gt; Ubuntu 9.x. I can manage building if given a source distro, but would
&gt;&gt;&gt; certainly prefer pre-built packages (32-bit on both platforms).
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; There is a i386 .deb which may work on ubuntu9; would be curious to
&gt;&gt; know if it does. :)
&gt; 
&gt; I'm away [on vacation] from my ubuntu systems right now, but will try
&gt; it late next week and provide feedback.
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; ...
&gt;&gt;&gt; I had a one-line change for one of those pages last week, and sent
&gt;&gt;&gt; that to this mailing list (and it was promptly fixed; yay!). What is
&gt;&gt;&gt; the recommended "best" process for feedback? Should we all fork the
&gt;&gt;&gt; website, make changes, and send pull requests? Send mail here? File
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Pull requests are easiest from a procedural standpoint.
&gt; 
&gt; Will do.
&gt; 
&gt; Cheers,
&gt; -g
&gt; 
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com


\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

