---
title: "Re: riak failed to start up"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-08-07T23:30:21-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08212"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg08206"
author_name: "Joseph Blomstedt"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-08-07T23:30:21-07:00
---


The error you're getting is related to "riak\\_core\\_capability" which
didn't exist in Riak until Riak 1.2.0. It looks like you somehow ended
up installing Riak 1.2 RC1, not Riak 1.1.4. Keep in mind that RC1 was
the first "release candidate" (hence the RC) and there were a total of
7 RCs before we release the final version of Riak 1.2. All RCs before
RC7 had major release blocking bugs. There was a capabilities related
bug that was fixed in the later RCs, so you're likely hitting a
capabilities bug that has since been fixed.

Please either re-install Riak 1.1.4, or install the now officially
released Riak 1.2.0. This should hopefully fix your issue.

Regards,
Joe


On Tue, Aug 7, 2012 at 8:12 PM,  wrote:
&gt; Hi Mark,
&gt; OS - Linux 2.6.32-71.el6.x86\\_64 #1 SMPx86\\_64 x86\\_64 x86\\_64 GNU/Linux(centos 
&gt; 64 bit)
&gt;
&gt; RIAK\\_VERSION="riak (1.2.0rc1 2012-07-13) RedHat x86\\_64" its there at 
&gt; /usr/sbin/riak but I am using riak -1.1.4 ...quite confused ..correct me on 
&gt; what went wrong ..
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Thanks
&gt; Sangeetha
&gt;
&gt; -----Original Message-----
&gt; From: Mark Phillips [mailto:m...@basho.com]
&gt; Sent: Wednesday, August 08, 2012 4:34 AM
&gt; To: Pattabi Raman, Sangeetha (Cognizant)
&gt; Cc: riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; Subject: Re: riak failed to start up
&gt;
&gt; Hi Sangeetha,
&gt;
&gt; It looks familiar but it's hard to say. Can you share the Riak version? And 
&gt; what OS you're running?
&gt;
&gt; Mark
&gt;
&gt; On Tue, Aug 7, 2012 at 4:15 AM,  
&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt; Hi ,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Can any one help me on the start up error ..thx in advance
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; [root@CTSINGMRGTO riak]# cat console.log
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; 2012-08-07 09:13:54.260 [error] &lt;0.164.0&gt; CRASH REPORT Process
&gt;&gt; riak\\_core\\_capability with 0 neighbours exited with reason: no function
&gt;&gt; clause matching orddict:fetch('riak@127.0.0.1', []) line 72 in
&gt;&gt; gen\\_server:terminate/6 line 747
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; [root@CTSINGMRGTO riak]# riak start
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Attempting to restart script through sudo -u riak
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; /etc/profile: line 31: id: command not found
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; /usr/sbin/riak: line 6: uname: command not found
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; /usr/sbin/riak: line 6: [: too many arguments
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; /usr/sbin/riak: line 30: whoami: command not found
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; sudo doesn't appear to be installed and your EUID isn't riak
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; on running as service
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; [root@CTSINGMRGTO riak]# service riak start
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Starting Riak: Riak failed to start within 15 seconds,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; see the output of 'riak console' for more information.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; If you want to wait longer, set the environment variable
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; WAIT\\_FOR\\_ERLANG to the number of seconds to wait.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; [FAILED]
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks & regards
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; sangeetha
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; This e-mail and any files transmitted with it are for the sole use of
&gt;&gt; the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential and privileged
&gt;&gt; information. If you are not the intended recipient(s), please reply to
&gt;&gt; the sender and destroy all copies of the original message. Any
&gt;&gt; unauthorized review, use, disclosure, dissemination, forwarding,
&gt;&gt; printing or copying of this email, and/or any action taken in reliance
&gt;&gt; on the contents of this e-mail is strictly prohibited and may be unlawful.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt; This e-mail and any files transmitted with it are for the sole use of the 
&gt; intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential and privileged 
&gt; information. If you are not the intended recipient(s), please reply to the 
&gt; sender and destroy all copies of the original message. Any unauthorized 
&gt; review, use, disclosure, dissemination, forwarding, printing or copying of 
&gt; this email, and/or any action taken in reliance on the contents of this 
&gt; e-mail is strictly prohibited and may be unlawful.
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com



-- 
Joseph Blomstedt 
Senior Software Engineer
Basho Technologies, Inc.
http://www.basho.com/

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

