---
title: "Re: Throughput issue contd. On Joyend Riak Smartmachine"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-06-27T03:50:28-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07805"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg07804"
author_name: "Yousuf Fauzan"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-06-27T03:50:28-07:00
---


Its not about the difference in throughput in the two approaches I took.
Rather, the issue is that even 200 writes/sec is a bit on the lower side.
I could be doing something wrong with the configuration because people are
reporting throughputs of 2-3k ops/sec

If anyone here could guide me in setting up a cluster which would give such
kind of throughput.

Thanks,
Yousuf

On Wed, Jun 27, 2012 at 4:02 PM, Eric Anderson wrote:

&gt; On Jun 27, 2012, at 5:13 AM, Yousuf Fauzan  wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Hi,
&gt;
&gt; I setup a 3 machine riak SM cluster. Each machine used 4GB Ram and riak
&gt; OpenSource SmartMachine Image.
&gt;
&gt; Afterwards I tried loading data by following two methods
&gt; 1. Bash script
&gt; #!/bin/bash
&gt; echo $(date)
&gt; for (( c=1; c&lt;=1000; c++ ))
&gt; do
&gt; curl -s -d 'this is a test' -H "Content-Type: text/plain"
&gt; http://127.0.0.1:8098/buckets/test/keys
&gt; done
&gt; echo $(date)
&gt;
&gt; 2. Python Riak Client
&gt; c=riak.RiakClient("10.112.2.185")
&gt; b=c.bucket("test")
&gt; for i in xrange(10000):o=b.new(str(i), str(i)).store()
&gt;
&gt; For case 1, throughput was 25 writes/sec
&gt; For case 2, throughput was 200 writes/sec
&gt;
&gt; Maybe I am making a fundamental mistake somewhere. I tried the above two
&gt; scripts on EC2 clusters too and still got the same performance.
&gt;
&gt; Please, someone help
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; The major difference between these two is the first is executing a binary,
&gt; which has to basically create everything (connection, payload, etc) every
&gt; time through the loop. The second does not - it creates the client once,
&gt; then iterates over it keeping the same client and presumably the same
&gt; connection as well. That makes a huge difference.
&gt;
&gt; I would not use curl to do performance testing. What you probably want is
&gt; something like your python script that will work on many threads/processes
&gt; at once (or fire them up many times).
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Eric Anderson
&gt; Co-Founder
&gt; CopperEgg
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

