---
title: "Re: Logging chat messages"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-10-22T02:04:38-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08992"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg08991"
author_name: "Rapsey"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-10-22T02:04:38-07:00
---


On Mon, Oct 22, 2012 at 10:29 AM, Shashwat Srivastava wrote:

&gt;
&gt; Now, each bucket would have conversation between two users or of a room of
&gt; a site. The conversation rate for (some) rooms is very high, some 20,000 -
&gt; 30,000 messages per hour. We have observed that users usually don't access
&gt; conversations past one week. So, if a bucket has conversation of 3 years,
&gt; then mostly users would access the recent conversation upto a week or
&gt; month. Can riak handle this easily? Also, would riak use RAM wisely in this
&gt; scenario? Would it only keep keys and indexes, corresponding to recent
&gt; messages per bucket, in RAM?
&gt;
&gt;
Leveldb backend should.


&gt; Finally, what is the best approach for creating keys in a bucket? Earlier,
&gt; I was planning to use timestamp (in milliseconds). But in a room there can
&gt; be multiple messages at the same time. As I understand I cannot have
&gt; a unique incremental message id per bucket (as riak has write capability in
&gt; all nodes in a cluster so consistency is not guareented). Please correct me
&gt; if I am wrong. One other way could be to let riak generate key and I use
&gt; timestamp as a secondary index. But this seems to be a bad design. Also,
&gt; what would be the best way to achieve pagination for this use case?
&gt;
&gt;
You could use redis for incremental id's.



Sergej
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

