---
title: "Re: Riak_KV::Riak_PB"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-06-29T09:28:26-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07832"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg07831"
author_name: "Sean Cribbs"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-06-29T09:28:26-07:00
---


Andrew,

Yes it is, but we have some minor dependency/build issues to resolve. The
next pre-release tag should have the appropriate fixes.

On Fri, Jun 29, 2012 at 12:17 PM, Andrew Zeneski
wrote:

&gt; I built the 1.2.0pre3 (and master) and now have secondary index lookups
&gt; working in my client api; I am testing search right now but getting errors;
&gt; is RpbSearchQueryReq (PBC) implemented in 1.2?
&gt;
&gt; Thanks!
&gt;
&gt; Andrew
&gt;
&gt; On Jun 28, 2012, at 4:26 PM, Andrew Zeneski wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Thanks Sean,
&gt;
&gt; Indeed, sending either of those messages to Riak will result in a dropped
&gt; connection.
&gt;
&gt; I would like to move forward with my client implementation so that it will
&gt; be ready when 1.2 is released.
&gt;
&gt; Can I join in on the QA and maybe get a snapshot? Or should I be looking
&gt; for the 1.2 branch on github?
&gt;
&gt; Andrew
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Jun 28, 2012, at 4:14 PM, Sean Cribbs  wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Hi Andrew,
&gt;
&gt; Those were added to be part of the 1.2 release, which is in testing/QA
&gt; phases now. You can expect the release sometime next month. If you intend
&gt; to use the .proto files in your client application, be aware that they may
&gt; not be supported on the server yet (in fact, 1.1 and earlier will likely
&gt; dump the connection).
&gt;
&gt; On Thu, Jun 28, 2012 at 4:11 PM, Andrew Zeneski 
&gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; I am working on a new protocol buffer based client using the master
&gt;&gt; riak\\_pb repository. I would just like to inquire on the state of riak\\_kv
&gt;&gt; with the latest pb, specifically is RpbIndexReq and RpbSearchQueryReq
&gt;&gt; implemented yet (I know it is not in 1.1.4), if not is there a road map or
&gt;&gt; any idea when.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks!
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Andrew
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt; Software Engineer
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; http://basho.com/
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;


-- 
Sean Cribbs 
Software Engineer
Basho Technologies, Inc.
http://basho.com/
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

