---
title: "Re: LevelDB driver"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-07-01T11:53:41-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03914"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg03908"
author_name: "Will Moss"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-07-01T11:53:41-07:00
---


Hey Dave,

This is very cool--glad you guys decided to bundle this in. The linked post
and the Google Code page both suggest that it will have a much more
efficient on-disk representation than InnoDB, do you have an specific
numbers on overhead per key?

Thanks,
Will


On Fri, Jul 1, 2011 at 9:03 AM, David Smith  wrote:

&gt; Hi all,
&gt;
&gt; Yesterday, we merged in support for the LevelDB
&gt; (http://code.google.com/p/leveldb/) as a backend driver for Riak.
&gt;
&gt; Initial benchmarking of LevelDB suggests that it is competitive to
&gt; InnoDB (aka innostore) for most use cases. The recovery model is much
&gt; better, as LevelDB uses an append-only storage system, and the license
&gt; is such that we can include it in the default Riak packages (i.e.
&gt; much, much easier to use).
&gt;
&gt; To get started, grab the latest Riak from Github and use the
&gt; "riak\\_kv\\_eleveldb\\_backend" in app.config as your backend driver. Data
&gt; will be stored in data/leveldb.
&gt;
&gt; We anticipate LevelDB being a good complement to Bitcask. For anything
&gt; approaching random I/O, where it's acceptable for the keyspace to be
&gt; in RAM, bitcask will be very (very) hard to beat. However, if you've
&gt; got a large keyspace that doesn't have purely random I/O, LevelDB will
&gt; useful and meet or exceed the performance characteristics seen with
&gt; Inno. You can find a more complete analysis on our blog:
&gt;
&gt; http://blog.basho.com/2011/07/01/Leveling-the-Field/
&gt;
&gt; As with some of the other major changes landing this summer, we'd
&gt; encourage you NOT to use this in production just yet.
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt;
&gt; D.
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Dave Smith
&gt; Director, Engineering
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; diz...@basho.com
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

