---
title: "Re: Delete bucket?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-07-28T14:12:04-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04122"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04119"
author_name: "Jonathan Langevin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-07-28T14:12:04-07:00
---


Ah, nice. Checked the js client, which mentioned that ?keys=stream is a
valid option to result in streamed key listings.
I'll get that implemented in my PHP client, thanks for the pointer :-)
\\*


Jonathan Langevin
Systems Administrator
Loom Inc.
Wilmington, NC: (910) 241-0433 - jlange...@loomlearning.com -
www.loomlearning.com - Skype: intel352
\\*


On Thu, Jul 28, 2011 at 4:42 PM, Jeremiah Peschka &lt;
jeremiah.pesc...@gmail.com&gt; wrote:

&gt; Depending on the client you're using, you can perform results streaming to
&gt; pull back results and process them in chunks rather than waiting for a
&gt; buffer to get filled.
&gt;
&gt; It's easy enough to write something like this using Ripple or
&gt; CorrugatedIron. I'm guessing it's possible with other clients.
&gt; ---
&gt; Jeremiah Peschka
&gt; Founder, Brent Ozar PLF, LLC
&gt;
&gt; On Jul 28, 2011, at 1:40 PM, Jonathan Langevin wrote:
&gt;
&gt; &gt; I've read on the wiki that to delete a bucket, the only method is to
&gt; manually delete all keys within the bucket.
&gt; &gt; So then what is the recommended process for deleting all keys within a
&gt; bucket, manually?
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; I was initially just listing all keys within a bucket, and then iterating
&gt; the keys to send delete requests, but I hit a wall when I had too many keys
&gt; to get back in a list request (received header too large errors).
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; So I assume the alternative would be to run a mapreduce to pull keys from
&gt; the bucket with a specified limit, to then execute the deletes?
&gt; &gt; While that's fine for an "active record" style environment (where there
&gt; may be cleanup actions that must occur per object being deleted), is there
&gt; another method for deleting all keys within a bucket, massively? (Maybe via
&gt; a map call?)
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Jonathan Langevin
&gt; &gt; Systems Administrator
&gt; &gt; Loom Inc.
&gt; &gt; Wilmington, NC: (910) 241-0433 - jlange...@loomlearning.com -
&gt; www.loomlearning.com - Skype: intel352
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

