---
title: "Re: Riak Development Environments"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-03-29T18:24:34-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg02792"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg02761"
author_name: "siculars"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-03-29T18:24:34-07:00
---


ring\\_creation\\_size is the key setting. Once you set it for a cluster it is a 
lock. Check the deets on the wiki. 

cookie : erlang clusters share a cookie that they all need to have in the 
config. Make it sUp3rSp3c!aL!.

name : each host needs its own unique name. Something like riak@private-ip-addr 
will work. 

That's about all you need to keep in mind. 
------Original Message------
From: Les Mikesell
To: Alexander Sicular
Cc: riak-users@lists.basho.com
Subject: Re: Riak Development Environments
Sent: Mar 29, 2011 18:19

Yes, the question is, what would you need to change in that initial setup to 
have something that would migrate, still running to some larger number of nodes 
on other machines? A larger number of partitions?


On 3/29/11 6:27 PM, Alexander Sicular wrote:
&gt; "devrel" is not a version. It's a makefile setting that makes 3 installations
&gt; with the correct cinfig settings such that the 3 can be joined together.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; @siculars on twitter
&gt; http://siculars.posterous.com
&gt;
&gt; Sent from my iPhone
&gt;
&gt; On Mar 29, 2011, at 15:52, Les Mikesell  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; On 3/29/2011 5:33 PM, Mårten Gustafson wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt; On 28 March 2011 21:27, Mark Phillips wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Anyone else care to share their setup? Or have any questions about
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; what your dev setup should look like?
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; For the general and common cases of testing - ie development,
&gt;&gt;&gt; verifying application and cluster behavior in case of failures etc a
&gt;&gt;&gt; simple "make devrel" works fine for me. I run Riak directly on my MBP.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; As others have pointed out - load testing and tuning for production is
&gt;&gt;&gt; another story.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; What would have to be changed from the devrel version to get something where
&gt;&gt; you could simply add other nodes to migrate to production - and maybe
&gt;&gt; eventually remove the originals?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; Les Mikesell
&gt;&gt; lesmikes...@gmail.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com


Sent from my Verizon Wireless BlackBerry
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

