---
title: "Re: Any optimizations related to small and bit clock?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-10-03T08:02:12-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04988"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04567"
author_name: "Ryan Zezeski"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-10-03T08:02:12-07:00
---


Gordon,

It's worth pointing out that in 1.0 this should be greatly improved because
now we have changed vclock behavior in relation to PUTs [1]. Essentially,
client id now comes from the vnode, not externally, which leads to
smaller/static vclock sizes even in the face of frequent updates.

I can't say with complete certainty that reducing the small/big vclock won't
change your perf characteristics but I will say it is probably better to
have smaller vclocks which in turn leads to smaller objects. Since pruning
will happen more often I would imagine your PUT latencies could potentially
go up a little. The best way to know is to measure.

Another option is setting last\\_write\\_wins to true but this should only be
used as a last effort and only if you truly don't care about siblings [2].

-Ryan

[1]: Checkout the section titled "Get/Put Improvements" in the release
notes. https://github.com/basho/riak/blob/riak-1.0.0/RELEASE-NOTES.org

[2]: http://wiki.basho.com/Vector-Clocks.html#Siblings

On Fri, Sep 2, 2011 at 11:33 AM, Gordon Tillman  wrote:

&gt; Morning All,
&gt;
&gt; I have noticed that with the default vclock settings the size of the
&gt; X-Riak-Vclock header gets really big really fast for certain objects that
&gt; are updated frequently. I am considering setting small\\_vclock to 4 and
&gt; big\\_vclock to 16 instead of the default values of 10 and 50, respectivly.
&gt;
&gt; I know that that are various performance optimizations that are based upon
&gt; certain default bucket settings and was wondering if this change would
&gt; adversely affect any of those.
&gt;
&gt; Many thanks!
&gt;
&gt; --gordon tillman
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

