---
title: "Re: Problem with deleting keys"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-06-16T11:04:43-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03732"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg03729"
author_name: "Nico Meyer"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-06-16T11:04:43-07:00
---


Expiry time in bitcask is a global setting at the moment, not per key. 
But even if it where different, this should behave exactly the same as 
outright deletion (what else is expires now supposed to mean?). Hence 
the same problems as David observed in the first place.


Which makes me think, actually. Andrew, if riak only reaps the tombstone 
if all primary vnodes are up, why did David see the behaviour he did?
Is it not working correctly in 0.14? Or does list key ignore the values, 
and therefore the tombstone? I'm guessing the latter, which would be 
another reason to avoid key listing for any real world usage.


Cheers,
Nico

Am 16.06.2011 19:33, schrieb Greg Nelson:
In 0.14, would it be reasonable for the application to write its own 
special tombstone marker while at the same time setting an expiry time 
(== now) on the object? (Assuming bitcask backend...)


On Thursday, June 16, 2011 at 10:24 AM, Andrew Thompson wrote:


On Thu, Jun 16, 2011 at 09:24:28AM -0700, David Leimbach wrote:
Riak doesn't have tombstones (as far as I know) so, you have to make 
sure
all your nodes are up to do a delete. This, to me, seems like a 
misfeature.


Please read my other responses in this thread, riak absolutely \\*does\\*
have tombstones. And if you don't have all the primary nodes for a key
up at the time of a delete, you'll write tombstones they just won't be
able to trigger an actual removal of the key.

Now, that said. 0.14 has several bugs in how delete works and so the
behaviour is probably going to be unpredictable. To be perfectly honest,
I recommend avoiding deletes where possible on 0.14. As you suggested,
implementing tombstones at the application layer might be a better
strategy until the next major riak release. Unfortunately, the changes
were too extensive to be backported into the 0.14 branch.

Andrew

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com 
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com



\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com


\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

