---
title: "Using Secondary Indices as input to a map reduce function in Riak"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-12-06T09:22:08-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg09451"
author_name: "Barry Ryan"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-12-06T09:22:08-08:00
---


Hello,

I'm trying to use the output of a secondary index as the input to my mapreduce 
function which is written in javascript using the HTTP API to interact with 
Riak. I found on the Riak web-site that it is possible: 'If you've enabled 
Secondary Indexes, the list of inputs can also reference a Secondary Index 
query'. However, I couldn't find anywhere that explained how you would do that 
or what it would look like.

If "input" : ["bucket", "key"] is the map reduce equivalent of 'curl 
riakhost:port/riak/bucketname/key' then what is the input equivalent of 'curl 
riakhost:port/buckets/bucketname/index/indexname\\_bin/indexvalue'? Given that 
adding a third parameter to input is for keydata.
Additionally is it possible to include the value of your index in the output of 
the final reduce phase?

Kind regards,
Barry

BJSS Limited, 1st Floor, Coronet House, Queen Street, Leeds, LS1 2TW
T: 0113 297 9797 | F: 0113 297 9798 | W: http://www.bjss.com

The information included in this email and any files transmitted with it may 
contain information that is confidential and it must not be used by, or its 
contents or attachments copied or disclosed, to persons other than the intended 
addressee. If you have received this email in error, please notify BJSS. In the 
absence of written agreement to the contrary BJSS' relevant standard terms of 
contract for any work to be undertaken will apply. Please carry out virus or 
such other checks as you consider appropriate in respect of this email. BJSS do 
not accept responsibility for any adverse effect upon your system or data in 
relation to this email or any files transmitted with it. BJSS Limited, a 
company registered in England and Wales (Company Number 2777575), VAT 
Registration Number 613295452, Registered Office Address, First Floor, Coronet 
House, Queen Street, Leeds, LS1 2TW
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

