---
title: "Re: Informal survey about Python client API changes"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-07-24T15:40:27-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08051"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg08050"
author_name: "Philipp Borgers"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-07-24T15:40:27-07:00
---


On Tue, 2012-07-24 at 17:00 -0400, Shuhao Wu wrote:
&gt; On Tue, Jul 24, 2012 at 11:27 AM, Jeremy Thurgood  wrote:
&gt; &gt; On 24 July 2012 15:53, Sean Cribbs  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; So, on to my grandiose plans for the future of the Python Riak client.
&gt; &gt; We're currently using a combination of this client and Riakasaurus,
&gt; &gt; which is a Twisted-based client library that we maintain. Riakasaurus
&gt; &gt; is based (indirectly) on a previous version of the Python client, but
&gt; &gt; is different enough that it's impossible to pull in upstream changes
&gt; &gt; directly. The main reason for the divergence is that the Python client
&gt; &gt; assumes blocking network I/O operations that will return when they
&gt; &gt; have the required data, while Twisted uses an asynchronous
&gt; &gt; callback-based I/O mechanism.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; I think it would be possible to restructure the Python client somewhat
&gt; &gt; to decouple the higher-level operations from the lower-level network
&gt; &gt; operations in a way that would let us switch between Twisted-style
&gt; &gt; async I/O and more traditional blocking I/O. This would probably be a
&gt; &gt; fairly invasive change in some ways, but shouldn't have any noticeable
&gt; &gt; impact on the external API. I'm hoping it'll make the
&gt; &gt; ConnectionManager replacement cleaner and more flexible, but I don't
&gt; &gt; have a good enough mental model of the system to be sure.
&gt; 
&gt; Actually. I already have a prototype of just a separation between the
&gt; higher level and lower level API. I'm planning to add async IO (done
&gt; in some local branch a couple months ago, but very crude) but haven't
&gt; figured out a "good" way of doing it (callbacks, twisted style defer.
&gt; Greenlet vs threads. etc.) just yet.

I'm highly interested in the async stuff! Would be great if you could
share your local branch or ideas.

&gt; 
&gt; In addition I also added sibling handlings, which I believe is
&gt; missing/lacking in the riak-python-client, which is a center part of
&gt; my higher level design.
&gt; 
&gt; If you want to take a look and see if this is something you think is
&gt; what you mean, here's a link:
&gt; https://github.com/ultimatebuster/riak-python-client2
&gt; 
&gt; It's also a prototyping repo for me in terms of what to try to bring
&gt; to the official clients via pull requests.
&gt; 
&gt; &gt; As the person proposing this, I'm happy to put some effort into
&gt; &gt; hacking up a prototype to see if this is actually a workable idea and
&gt; &gt; to do the bulk of the implementation work if it is -- it'll save on a
&gt; &gt; bunch of Riakasaurus maintenance in the future if we can pull it off.
&gt; &gt; I'm proposing some pretty drastic surgery to the existing codebase, so
&gt; &gt; I'd like to know if other people (especially Sean) think it's a good
&gt; &gt; idea before I sink too much time into it.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Thanks,
&gt; &gt; --J
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com



signature.asc
Description: This is a digitally signed message part
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

