---
title: "Re: one-to-very-many link associations"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-04-23T06:54:59-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00139"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg00136"
author_name: "Orlin Bozhinov"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-04-23T06:54:59-07:00
---





Eric Gaumer wrote:
On Thu, Apr 22, 2010 at 4:47 PM, Orlin Bozhinov &gt; wrote:


 Eric,

 Thanks for the bigdata.com  link. It's
 something I had missed spotting.

 The Semantic Web doesn't fit it all either. I anticipate to much
 rather search riak (with its upcoming query language) than rely
 entirely on sparql. Though I've always had the option in mind. 
 If you look at my previous reply you'll see I'm considering it. I

 wonder what you think about the combined idea...

 If riak won't also become a real graph backend, then I'll likely
 go with an additional hosted database. It could be a relational
 db (the most readily available kind), mongodb (i.e. mongohq),
 talis, etc.



Given today's landscape, and lessons learned, anyone who isn't 
thinking in terms of diverse storage infrastructures isn't listening. 
There is no single magic solution and in fact, the NoSQL ideology 
frees us from that mentality (directed toward the relational database).


So yes, a combination of diverse components sounds like a reasonable 
architecture.


Is it the ideal architecture? That's something you'll have to work out 
given your technical requirements.


In terms of storage adapters, you're misunderstanding things. What 
they're referring to is the ability to get RDF statements in/out of 
the these backends. This doesn't imply that they transform them into 
graph databases. The graph aspect would actually be something that 
RDF.rb would have to provide on top of the underlying storage 
mechanism (via a SPARQL query engine).


Without such, you have no means of traversal. RDF.rb does not support 
RDFS, OWL, or SPARQL. It's essentially an RDF serializer that can 
retrieve/store RDF statements via storage adapters. Not to imply 
that's a bad thing, you're just not going to get graph like behavior 
from it.


Regards,
-Eric


Good points and correct about RDF.rb - RDF would be useless without 
inference or search. Perhaps for backup, as it's so portable. I 
wouldn't mind keeping that in Riak.


Definitely though, the links would need to go into a store that has a 
SPARQL endpoint. Based on the current list of adapters, I like RedStore 
or the Talis Platform the most. However, it's a fast growing ecosystem 
and I'm not sure I need a semantic solution for now. Maybe I'll add RDF 
while my foot is being shot...


Orlin


------------------------------------------------------------------------

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

