---
title: "Re: Javascript swapout"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-12-02T16:24:01-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01704"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg01703"
author_name: "Kevin Smith"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-12-02T16:24:01-08:00
---


0mq is definitely on my list of tech to evaluate when we get around to 
implementing this feature. I've heard the Erlang bindings are pretty good which 
is definitely a plus.

--Kevin
On Dec 2, 2010, at 7:16 PM, Greg Steffensen wrote:

&gt; Have you guys seen the zeromq library? It's a fast, brokerless message 
&gt; passing library (the sender can talk directly to the recipient, without a 
&gt; message queue server in the middle). That plus protocol buffers might be an 
&gt; easy way to call out to arbitrary code for mapreduce work, and you'd get the 
&gt; ability to make the recipient local or remote. Their user guide actually 
&gt; suggests that it was inspired by erlang.
&gt; 
&gt; Greg
&gt; 
&gt; On Thu, Dec 2, 2010 at 7:04 PM, Kevin Smith  wrote:
&gt; Unfortunately that's not really a possibility. We selected Spidermonkey 
&gt; because it's lightweight and designed for embedded use cases. To do the same 
&gt; with Rhino would require embedding the JVM which would be problematic to 
&gt; embed in the same way.
&gt; 
&gt; I have thought about implementing an external interface for map and reduce 
&gt; phases similar to Hadoop's streams interface so users could perform maps and 
&gt; reduces using whatever technology is appropriate for them. Would this work 
&gt; for your use case?
&gt; 
&gt; --Kevin
&gt; On Dec 2, 2010, at 6:35 PM, Hec H wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; &gt; Just wondering what the level of embed spidermonkey JS engine is within 
&gt; &gt; riak. Not too sure on the base code or related to C but are their 
&gt; &gt; opportinites via Java-Erlang interface for a Rhino JS/Java engine.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Thanks
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Hec
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com


\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

