---
title: "Re: Last modified date"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-12-02T02:23:35-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05846"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg05840"
author_name: "Russell Brown"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-12-02T02:23:35-08:00
---



On 1 Dec 2011, at 19:25, Sajithkumar Kizhakkiniyil wrote:

&gt; Hello
&gt; I have couple of question regarding the last modified information fetching 
&gt; form Riak PB client
&gt; 1. The last modified is split into to two parts lastModified and 
&gt; lastModifiedUsec. How to combine these to make atypical EPOCH time. As the 
&gt; per the PB java code the calculation seems like (lastModified \\* 1000L ) + 
&gt; (lastModifiedUsec / 100L); But on our testing the calculation seems to be 
&gt; more towards (lastModified \\* 1000L ) + (lastModifiedUsec / 1000L); Which is 
&gt; accurate representation

This is a bug. I'll open a ticket for it. You can raise a bug against the 
riak-java-client either using the github issues[1] at the repo or basho's 
bugzilla[2].

&gt; 2. Are these dates in UTC?

These dates are generated by a call to erlang:now() on the riak server node, so 
they will take whatever value the underlying OS on the server has for the 
current time., It would be nice if the timestamp included TZ info. You can 
create a feature request[3], or, if you consider the omission of TZ from a 
timestamp a bug, you can raise a bug against Riak[2].

Cheers

Russell

[1] https://github.com/basho/riak-java-client/issues
[2] https://issues.basho.com/
[3] http://features.basho.com/home

&gt; 
&gt; Regards
&gt; Sajith
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; This message is private and confidential. If you have received it in error, 
&gt; please notify the sender and remove it from your system.
&gt; 
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

