---
title: "Re: riak-erlang-client"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-01-07T15:58:19-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01921"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg01920"
author_name: "Anthony Molinaro"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-01-07T15:58:19-08:00
---



On Fri, Jan 07, 2011 at 03:38:45PM -0800, Dan Reverri wrote:
&gt; Hi Anthony,
&gt; 
&gt; Would you mind sending a pull request for the documentation updates without
&gt; the protobuffs changes?

I was trying to figure out how to do that, but it seems to be alluding me,
still a bit of a noob with git. I'll try to figure it out and do that.

&gt; Regarding the protobuffs changes, it would be best to apply the changes to a
&gt; fork of the basho/erlang\\_protobuffs repository and send a pull request.

Well the whole point of this was that basho/erlang\\_protobuffs is an ancient
fork that went to bitbucket, then when it came back was it's own separate
thing from the mainline (everything downstream of Nick Gerakine's original
implementation). I use the mainline for other projects which I also want
to use riak-erlang-client with. So the fact that it had it's own
implementation caused some conflicts. Thus I did the work to hand merge
the changes from the basho tree into the mainline (the seemed to just be
some minor iolist functions). The mainline has had some very nice recent
features, the handrolled parser was replaced with a leex/yecc one, and
support has been added for many protobuff features (like booleans, enums,
packed format, etc). So anyway, maybe there's a way to relink the
basho/erlang\\_protobuffs into the mainline? (again I'm a bit of a git noob
so no idea if its possible to do that).

&gt; Regarding the buckets, they should be specified as binaries. I'll fix that
&gt; now.

Cool, I'll look for it.

-Anthony

-- 
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Anthony Molinaro 

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

