---
title: "Re: licenses (was Re: riakkit, a python riak object mapper,	has hit beta!("
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-03-05T03:23:34-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06873"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06838"
author_name: "Andrey V. Martyanov"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-03-05T03:23:34-08:00
---


Hi Greg,

Thank your for sharing the information! I'm sorry, I'm not trying to change
somebody's mind. Everything started when I've made a typo in my initial
message to Shuhao, and wrote "GPL" instead of "LGPL". I strongly agree with
you, licensing is a personal choice. I just said that the license and the
style guide chosen by Shuhao avoid me using his project. It was part of my
feedback. I just don't like to contribute to a project with such a license
and you might know about possible reasons. So, let's close the topic! :)

Best regards,
Andrey Martyanov

On Mon, Mar 5, 2012 at 11:21 AM, Greg Stein  wrote:

&gt; Hey Andrey,
&gt;
&gt; I've spent well over a decade dealing with licensing issues. One thing
&gt; that I've learned is that licensing is a personal choice and decision,
&gt; and it is nearly impossible to alter somebody's philosophy. I find
&gt; people fall into the GPL camp ("free software"), or the Apache/BSD
&gt; camp ("permissive / open source"), so I always recommend GPLv3 or
&gt; ALv2. (I find people choosing weak reciprocal licenses like LGPL, EPL,
&gt; MPL, CDDL, etc should make up their mind and go to GPL or AL)
&gt;
&gt; In any case... license choice and arguments for one over the other is
&gt; best left to personal email, rather than a public mailing list like
&gt; riak-users. Changing minds doesn't happen on a mailing list :-)
&gt;
&gt; Cheers,
&gt; -g
&gt;
&gt; On Fri, Mar 2, 2012 at 05:24, Andrey V. Martyanov 
&gt; wrote:
&gt; &gt; Hi Justin,
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Sorry for the late response, I didn't see your message! In fact, I know
&gt; the
&gt; &gt; differences between the two. But, what is the profit of using it? Why
&gt; don't
&gt; &gt; just use BSD, for example, like many open source projects do. The biggest
&gt; &gt; minus of LGPL is that many people think that it's the same as GPL and
&gt; have
&gt; &gt; problems understanding it. Even your think that I don't know the
&gt; difference!
&gt; &gt; :) Why? Because, it's a common practice. A lot of people really don't
&gt; know
&gt; &gt; the difference. That's why I said before that (L)GPL is overcomplicated.
&gt; If
&gt; &gt; you open the LGPL main page [1], first thing you will see is "Why you
&gt; &gt; shouldn't use the Lesser GPL for your next library". Is it normal? It
&gt; &gt; confuses people. There are a lot of profit in pulling back the changes
&gt; &gt; you've made - a lot of people see it, fix it, comment it, improve it and
&gt; so
&gt; &gt; on. Why the license forces me to to that? It shouldn't.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; [1] http://www.gnu.org/licenses/lgpl.html
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Best regards,
&gt; &gt; Andrey Martyanov
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; On Fri, Mar 2, 2012 at 8:29 AM, Justin Sheehy  wrote:
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; Hi, Andrey.
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; On Mar 1, 2012, at 10:18 PM, "Andrey V. Martyanov" 
&gt; &gt;&gt; wrote:
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; Sorry for GPL, it's a typo. I just don't like GPL-based licenses,
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; including LGPL. I think it's overcomplicated.
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; You are of course free to dislike anything you wish, but it is worth
&gt; &gt;&gt; mentioning that GPL and LGPL are very different licenses; the LGPL is
&gt; &gt;&gt; missing infectious aspects of the GPL.
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; There are many projects which could not use GPL code compatibly with
&gt; their
&gt; &gt;&gt; preferred license but which can safely use LGPL code.
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; Justin
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

