---
title: "Re: Javascript swapout"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-12-02T16:16:58-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01703"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg01702"
author_name: "Greg Steffensen"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-12-02T16:16:58-08:00
---


Have you guys seen the zeromq library? It's a fast, brokerless message
passing library (the sender can talk directly to the recipient, without a
message queue server in the middle). That plus protocol buffers might be an
easy way to call out to arbitrary code for mapreduce work, and you'd get the
ability to make the recipient local or remote. Their user guide actually
suggests that it was inspired by erlang.

Greg

On Thu, Dec 2, 2010 at 7:04 PM, Kevin Smith  wrote:

&gt; Unfortunately that's not really a possibility. We selected Spidermonkey
&gt; because it's lightweight and designed for embedded use cases. To do the same
&gt; with Rhino would require embedding the JVM which would be problematic to
&gt; embed in the same way.
&gt;
&gt; I have thought about implementing an external interface for map and reduce
&gt; phases similar to Hadoop's streams interface so users could perform maps and
&gt; reduces using whatever technology is appropriate for them. Would this work
&gt; for your use case?
&gt;
&gt; --Kevin
&gt; On Dec 2, 2010, at 6:35 PM, Hec H wrote:
&gt;
&gt; &gt; Just wondering what the level of embed spidermonkey JS engine is within
&gt; riak. Not too sure on the base code or related to C but are their
&gt; opportinites via Java-Erlang interface for a Rhino JS/Java engine.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Thanks
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Hec
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

