---
title: "Re: riak_kv_multi_backend + custom backend"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-01-24T16:11:23-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg02106"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg02096"
author_name: "Anthony Molinaro"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-01-24T16:11:23-08:00
---



On Mon, Jan 24, 2011 at 02:15:37PM -0500, Sean Cribbs wrote:
&gt; Default bucket properties are defined in riak\\_core, not riak\\_kv, so you can't 
&gt; really set the hash function as a result of setting something else. 
&gt; Furthermore, you really only have to set these once, so you could configure 
&gt; your application to check the bucket props on startup and set them 
&gt; appropriately.

Do you mean in the start/2 of the custom backend, or somewhere else? I thought
the start/2 function was passed the partition number (which in turn I thought
was a result of calling the hash), but that's just conjecture as I've not had
a chance to trace through the code. If that is the case it seems like it would
be too late, if you are talking about my application talking to riak, I thought
there was no way via the pb client to set these options. I'd like to avoid
using a mix of pb and HTTP in my application as it just seems to complicate
things. I'll probably just use curl when I first set things up for now, but
figured I'd put these issues out there in case others have these problems
or the basho developers are bored and looking for things to do ;)
 
&gt; "backend" is a property only used by the multi\\_backend (which isn't used that 
&gt; frequently), so it seems a little presumptuous to special-case that property 
&gt; (turning it into an atom). There are a few other technical reasons that you 
&gt; don't want to arbitrarily turn binaries into atoms. I agree that it's not 
&gt; especially intuitive but I think it's a small point of pain, especially if we 
&gt; fix the documentation.

Oh, I assumed since the documentation said atom it was meant to be that, and
most other parameters are either strings, integers or atoms. So binaries are
a bit surprising. But I don't have a strong opinion, so I'll just document
what's working.

-Anthony

-- 
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Anthony Molinaro 

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

