---
title: "Re: what about millions of buckets"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-07-11T02:12:45-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07893"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg07892"
author_name: "Wu Ray"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-07-11T02:12:45-07:00
---


Thanks. what's more, I want to know if there is best practice for
performance in this special situation, such as avoiding to do
something, etc.

 On Wed, Jul 11, 2012 at 11:03 AM, Sean Cribbs  wrote:
&gt; Note he said "secondary index", and yes installing the search hook on that
&gt; many buckets would clog up the ring state.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Tue, Jul 10, 2012 at 10:58 PM, Andrew Zeneski 
&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Sean,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Doesn't enabling search on a bucket mean setting properties? At least the
&gt;&gt; precommit hook property right?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Andrew
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Jul 10, 2012, at 10:56 PM, Sean Cribbs wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Wu,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; As long as you are not setting properties on those buckets, there are very
&gt;&gt; few reasons why performance would be adversely affected. The bucket can
&gt;&gt; simply be considered a prefix for the key.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Tue, Jul 10, 2012 at 10:52 PM, Wu Ray  wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Hi, guys
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; The common situation is there is hundreds buckets, every bucket has
&gt;&gt;&gt; millions of kv pairs. But my question is that I want millions of
&gt;&gt;&gt; buckets , every bucket has kv pairs from dozens to hundreds.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; So, in this condition, is Riak stiil a good solution, I means the
&gt;&gt;&gt; performance and second index search.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Best regards.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

