---
title: "Re: Python client performance issue"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-02-15T02:24:03-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg02320"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg02319"
author_name: "Andy Gross"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-02-15T02:24:03-08:00
---


python-riak-client already uses version 2.3.0. Adventurous types might want to 
check out https://github.com/Greplin/fast-python-pb, which wraps the C/C++ 
protocol buffers library. 

-- 
Andy Gross
Principal Architect
Basho Technologies, Inc.
On Tuesday, February 15, 2011 at 1:46 AM, Nico Meyer wrote: 
&gt; Hi Mike,
&gt; 
&gt; perhaps you can try to upgrade the protocol buffers library to at least
&gt; version 2.3.0. This is from the changelog for that version:
&gt; 
&gt; Python
&gt; \\* 10-25 times faster than 2.2.0, still pure-Python.
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; Cheers,
&gt; Nico
&gt; 
&gt; Am Montag, den 14.02.2011, 19:35 -0500 schrieb Mike Stoddart:
&gt; &gt; Will do when I get time. Would the REST API be any faster?
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; Thanks
&gt; &gt; Mike
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; On Mon, Feb 14, 2011 at 7:01 PM, Thomas Burdick
&gt; &gt;  wrote:
&gt; &gt; &gt; I would highly recommend looking in to the cProfile and pstat module and
&gt; &gt; &gt; profile the code that is going slow. If your using the protocol buffer
&gt; &gt; &gt; client it could possibly be related to the fact that python protocol 
&gt; &gt; &gt; buffers
&gt; &gt; &gt; is extraordinarily slow and is well known to be slow. Profile until proven
&gt; &gt; &gt; guilty though.
&gt; &gt; &gt; Tom Burdick
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; On Mon, Feb 14, 2011 at 7:09 AM, Mike Stoddart  wrote:
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; I added some code to my system to test writing data into Riak. I'm
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; using the Python client library with protocol buffers. I'm writing a
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; snapshot of my current data, which is one json object containing on
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; average 60 individual json sub-objects. Each sub object contains about
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; 22 values.
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; # Archived entry. ts is a formatted timestamp.
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; entry = self.\\_bucket.new(ts, data=data)
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; entry.store()
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; # Now write the current entry.
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; entry = self.\\_bucket.new("current", data=data)
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; entry.store()
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; I'm writing the same data twice; the archived copy and the current
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; copy, which I can easily retrieve later. Performance is lower than
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; expected; top is showing a constant cpu usage of 10-12%.
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; I haven't decided to use Riak; this is to help me decide. But for now
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; are there any optimisations I can do here? A similiar test with
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; MongoDB shows a steady cpu usage of 1%. The cpu usages are for my
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; client, not Riak's own processes. The only differences in my test app
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; is the code that writes the data to the database. Otherwise all other
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; code is 100% the same between these two test apps.
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; Any suggestions appreciated.
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; Thanks
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; Mike
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

