---
title: "Re: Time a link was created?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-10-23T14:56:51-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05252"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg05229"
author_name: "Andrew Fisher"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-10-23T14:56:51-07:00
---


Thanks for the pointers guys:

@eric - Am not sure the python library lets me do that - looking at the docs
and playing with the object this morning. I probably can't query by that
header at a later stage though can I?

@siculars - Thanks for that - I think that's the option I'm going to go for
- is it a bit weird to be creating another set that just holds pointers to
another object for the sake of a date? Is there a more "riakful" way of
achieving what I'm setting out to do?

Cheers
Andrew

On Sat, Oct 22, 2011 at 1:14 AM, Alexander Sicular wrote:

&gt; Use a secondary index when writing the key.
&gt;
&gt; Otherwise the only date you get is last modified date as seen in the
&gt; header. Although that date is not indexed and would only work in your use
&gt; case if your link write was your last write to that key.
&gt;
&gt; Cheerios,
&gt; Alexander
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; @siculars on twitter
&gt; http://siculars.posterous.com
&gt;
&gt; Sent from my iRotaryPhone
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Oct 21, 2011, at 1:14, Andrew Fisher  wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Hi all,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I'm using the python bindings for Riak so there may be an element of this
&gt;&gt; being obscured due to the library.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I'm creating a link between two objects - I can establish it, query it and
&gt;&gt; tag it so that part is working great. What I want to do now is determine the
&gt;&gt; date/time a link was created between the two objects. That way I could
&gt;&gt; generate a job that says get me all the objects of bucket A that are linked
&gt;&gt; to bucket B that were linked at time X (and potentially date ranging down
&gt;&gt; the line as well but walk then run).
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Is this doable? Am I looking in the wrong place by looking at the data
&gt;&gt; available on the link itself?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Kind regards
&gt;&gt; Andrew
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\*\\*\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/\\*\\*mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_\\*\\*lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;


-- 

\\*Andrew Fisher\\*

Chief Technology Officer



[image: Description: http://jbadigital.com/images/email\\_footer.jpg]



\\*JBA Online Consultancy\\*




W: www.jbadigital.com

A: Level 1, 2 Darling Street, South Yarra, Melbourne, 3141





The information contained in this email is confidential and is intended for
the use of the individual or entity named above. If the receiver of this
message is not the intended recipient, you are hereby notified that any
dissemination, distribution or copy of this email is strictly prohibited.
If you have received this e-mail in error, please notify our office by
telephone. JB/A and their employees do not represent that this transmission
is free from viruses or other defects and you should see it as your
responsibility to check for viruses and defects. JB/A disclaims any
liability to any person for loss or damage resulting (directly or
indirectly) from the receipt of electronic mail (including enclosures).
&lt;&gt;\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

