---
title: "Re: Announcing Riak 1.1 release candidate 2"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-02-10T06:50:15-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06581"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06580"
author_name: "Mark Steele"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-02-10T06:50:15-08:00
---


Just curious, but is bz1160
 slated
to be fixed for 1.1? Seems kind of serious...


On Fri, Feb 10, 2012 at 9:43 AM, Jeremiah Peschka &lt;
jeremiah.pesc...@gmail.com&gt; wrote:

&gt; Good to know! CorrugatedIron should already let you do that, so we can
&gt; keep coasting by on good looks and charm.
&gt;
&gt; ---
&gt; Jeremiah Peschka, MVP
&gt; Managing Director, Brent Ozar PLF, LLC
&gt;
&gt; On Feb 10, 2012, at 12:09 AM, Russell Brown  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On 10 Feb 2012, at 03:04, Jeremiah Peschka wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Are there any protocol changes for client developers to be aware of, or
&gt; are we safe?
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Not strictly a protocol change, but It is possible to run a MapReduce job
&gt; \\*without\\* phases now. If your client previously disallowed this it should
&gt; change.
&gt;
&gt; To make it clear - the MapReduce JSON must still contain both 'inputs' and
&gt; 'query' elements, but 'query' may be an empty list '[]'. In 1.0.\\* this
&gt; would result in a 400 with the body
&gt;
&gt; "An error occurred parsing the "query" field.
&gt; "No query phases were given\\n""
&gt;
&gt; In 1.1 you will get a list of Bucket/Key pairs returned.
&gt;
&gt; Cheers
&gt;
&gt; Russell
&gt;
&gt; ---
&gt; Jeremiah Peschka
&gt; Managing Director, Brent Ozar PLF, LLC
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Thu, Feb 9, 2012 at 7:01 PM, Jared Morrow  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; The next release candidate has been built and uploaded to our Downloads
&gt;&gt; page listed below. The RELEASE-NOTES at the link below has also been
&gt;&gt; updated with the latest fixes.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Lastly, we are tentatively planning on releasing Riak 1.1 the week of
&gt;&gt; February 20th, so if you have some particular test cases you want to run
&gt;&gt; before we cut the final release, now is your chance!
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt; Jared
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Feb 7, 2012, at 9:25 PM, Jared Morrow wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Riak Users,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I am pleased to announce the availability of Riak 1.1.0 RC (release
&gt;&gt; candidate) 1. We are providing RC packages of 1.1 to the community like
&gt;&gt; we did with the last major release (Riak 1.0) in the hopes that you as a
&gt;&gt; community can offer us feedback before final release. Unlike 1.0 though,
&gt;&gt; we are planning the 1.1 release to be a shorter cycle from first RC to
&gt;&gt; final release (barring any major event or bug that is found with RC1
&gt;&gt; obviously). So, please download, install, abuse, and enjoy RC1 and let us
&gt;&gt; know what you think.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Download from the downloads page http://basho.com/resources/downloads/
&gt;&gt; under 1.1 or CURRENT.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; An extremely rough initial draft of the 1.1 release notes is available
&gt;&gt; here: https://github.com/basho/riak/blob/master/RELEASE-NOTES.org
&gt;&gt; I assure you it will be filled out with actual descriptions of features
&gt;&gt; added by the time 1.1 ships.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; As always, thanks from the entire Basho team!
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

