---
title: "Re: Riak 1.0 pre-release series"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-09-08T12:33:50-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04631"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04628"
author_name: "Greg Stein"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-09-08T12:33:50-07:00
---


No worries. That is what "pre-release" is all about :-) ... I'm
focusing on the Python support right now, and 0.14.x works just fine
for that, but I'll look into the 1.0-pre in the next week or two.

Thanks!
-g

On Thu, Sep 8, 2011 at 13:02, Jared Morrow  wrote:
&gt; Sorry about the lack of a source package, that was my oversight.   I just
&gt; uploaded one to downloads.basho.com.
&gt; Thanks for the feedback,
&gt; -Jared
&gt; On Thu, Sep 8, 2011 at 5:52 AM, Greg Stein  wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Thu, Sep 8, 2011 at 07:47, David Smith  wrote:
&gt;&gt; &gt; On Thu, Sep 8, 2011 at 5:41 AM, Greg Stein  wrote:
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; I just checked out the link (provided below) and did not find a
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; \\*source\\* distribution. Could you work that into the distribution?
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; Yes, there should be one of those -- will ping Jared.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks!
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; In my particular situation, I'm working on Mac OS 10.5 (Leopard) and
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; Ubuntu 9.x. I can manage building if given a source distro, but would
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; certainly prefer pre-built packages (32-bit on both platforms).
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; There is a i386 .deb which may work on ubuntu9; would be curious to
&gt;&gt; &gt; know if it does. :)
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I'm away [on vacation] from my ubuntu systems right now, but will try
&gt;&gt; it late next week and provide feedback.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;...
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; I had a one-line change for one of those pages last week, and sent
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; that to this mailing list (and it was promptly fixed; yay!). What is
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; the recommended "best" process for feedback? Should we all fork the
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; website, make changes, and send pull requests? Send mail here? File
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; Pull requests are easiest from a procedural standpoint.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Will do.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Cheers,
&gt;&gt; -g
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

