---
title: "Javascript errors in reduce phases seen as	{error,javascript_reduce_timeout}?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-05-10T06:20:46-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03292"
author_name: "Jeremy Raymond"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-05-10T06:20:46-07:00
---


Hello,

In a MapReduce job I have filtering through about 6500 items if I filter out 
enough items my m/r job completes successfully. If I loosen the filtering such 
that a large number of items would be included in the results the m/r fails 
with error {error,javascript\\_reduce\\_timeout}. This error occurs after about 10 
seconds of processing. Would Javascript errors such as the Javascript process 
running out of memory and crashing result in this timeout error? I also noticed 
that after this error is returned, the riak node I made the request on chugs 
along at ~100% CPU for about another minute but the other two nodes quite down 
almost immediately after the error is returned. How might I go about debugging 
this?

- Jeremy


---------------------------------------------------------------------
This transmission (including any attachments) may contain confidential 
information, privileged material (including material protected by the 
solicitor-client or other applicable privileges), or constitute non-public 
information. Any use of this information by anyone other than the intended 
recipient is prohibited. If you have received this transmission in error, 
please immediately reply to the sender and delete this information from your 
system. Use, dissemination, distribution, or reproduction of this transmission 
by unintended recipients is not authorized and may be unlawful.
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

