---
title: "Re: Ripple & an attribute named 'key'"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-02-12T19:52:03-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg02307"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg02298"
author_name: "Sean Cribbs"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-02-12T19:52:03-08:00
---


If you don't specify a key, Riak will choose one for you (base 62-encoded hash 
of something, last I checked). Is that not what you're trying to do?

Sean Cribbs 
Developer Advocate
Basho Technologies, Inc.
http://basho.com/

On Feb 12, 2011, at 10:50 PM, Mat Ellis wrote:

&gt; The point of the code is not to use a non-string ID but to generate a 
&gt; default. Is it 'failing' because we're attempting to override the type? The 
&gt; actual code in question (this is a simplification) is generating a GUID which 
&gt; can easily be stored as a string instead of an integer. Otherwise we'll just 
&gt; have to use some other term, your example is precisely what we're doing.
&gt; 
&gt; Thx
&gt; 
&gt; On Feb 12, 2011, at 7:47 PM, Sean Cribbs wrote:
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; The choice of "key" as the method/attribute name corresponds to the Riak 
&gt;&gt; terminology for the same concept (and is analogous to "id" in ActiveRecord). 
&gt;&gt; If you want to use a non-String value for the key, create a property of 
&gt;&gt; some other name and then use the "key\\_on" method which makes a defined 
&gt;&gt; property act as the key.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; property :some\\_num, Integer, :presence =&gt; true, :default =&gt; 1234
&gt;&gt; key\\_on :some\\_num
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt;&gt; Developer Advocate
&gt;&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt;&gt; http://basho.com/
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On Feb 12, 2011, at 8:00 PM, Mat Ellis wrote:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Why do these behave differently in Ripple?
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; # Leaves key field blank
&gt;&gt;&gt; property :key, Integer, :presence =&gt; true, :default =&gt; 1234
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; # Populates key2 field with 1234
&gt;&gt;&gt; property :key2, Integer, :presence =&gt; true, :default =&gt; 1234
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; We'd like to use the key field as a standard (like the 'id' field is the 
&gt;&gt;&gt; default in ActiveRecord). Is this a bad idea and if so why?
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; M.
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; 
&gt; 


\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

