---
title: "Re: Problem running Innostore at Mac OS X"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-05-17T13:33:26-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00402"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg00397"
author_name: "Dmitry Demeshchuk"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-05-17T13:33:26-07:00
---


No, it's Intel, Core 2 Duo. That makes the problem even more weird.
The other bad news is that I cannot find any core dumps from Erlang...

On Mon, May 17, 2010 at 7:41 PM, Ryan Tilder  wrote:
&gt; Which hardware platform are you running on?  I'm guessing PowerPC.  Bus
&gt; errors pretty much don't happen on x86 platforms any more.  If you haven't
&gt; filed a bug with the full output of the error, please do so.  We can't do
&gt; much for you without more detailed info.
&gt; --Ryan
&gt; On Sun, May 16, 2010 at 2:12 AM, Dmitry Demeshchuk 
&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Greetings.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I'm running Mac OS X 10.5.8. Riak 0.10.1 is compiled and works good.
&gt;&gt; However, when I install Innostore like described at the wiki page and
&gt;&gt; try to perform any operations with Riak, node goes down.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; When I start riak using `bin/riak console`, everything seems to work good:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; 100516 12:48:13 Embedded InnoDB 1.0.6.6750 started; log sequence number
&gt;&gt; 44243
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; But when I try to get keys from a bucket, to put any data using basic
&gt;&gt; Erlang interface (either from the other Erlang node or from the opened
&gt;&gt; console), Riak crashes with bus error.
&gt;&gt; I tried to start Riak as root but with the same result. Then thought
&gt;&gt; that perhaps free disk space is too low (about 12 GB) and freed some
&gt;&gt; space (up to about 20 GB) but still get the same result. Also, tried
&gt;&gt; to turn SMP on and off - still no result.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I'm going to try installing it on my FreeBSD machine, will write about
&gt;&gt; the results.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; Best regards,
&gt;&gt; Dmitry Demeshchuk
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;



-- 
Best regards,
Dmitry Demeshchuk

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

