---
title: "Re: Using PBClusterConfig with RiakClient"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-04-11T11:56:07-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07189"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg07188"
author_name: "Sean Cribbs"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-04-11T11:56:07-07:00
---


Ahmed,

Only one host will process the request (although it will be dispatched
automatically as needed to replicas around the cluster). If you must
connect to only a single host, consider putting a load-balancer between
your client and Riak. We are working on auto-configuring clients for a
future Riak release.

On Wed, Apr 11, 2012 at 2:45 PM, Ahmed Bashir wrote:

&gt; Thanks for the link; this is precisely what led me to believe that
&gt; PBClusterConfig only supports IRiakClient, so I thought I'd ask around
&gt; ...
&gt;
&gt; Also, if we create a RiakClient with a single host (and others exist),
&gt; is there any auto-dicovery that goes on to balance the requests across
&gt; ll ring members, or will that one host process all the app requests?
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Wed, Apr 11, 2012 at 11:32 AM, Sean Cribbs  wrote:
&gt; &gt; Ahmed,
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; I think you'll find this resource useful, it contains some examples of
&gt; how
&gt; &gt; to use
&gt; &gt; PBClusterConfig:
&gt; https://github.com/basho/riak-java-client/wiki/ClientFactory
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; On Wed, Apr 11, 2012 at 2:29 PM, Ahmed Bashir 
&gt; &gt; wrote:
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; Hey guys,
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; I currently have an app that uses the RiakClient/RiakObject interface
&gt; &gt;&gt; (fetch(),store(),etc) in lieu of the
&gt; &gt;&gt; IRiakClient/IRiakObject/FetchObject interface.
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; Is there any way for me to continue using my code with
&gt; &gt;&gt; PBClusterConfig? It looks like I need to move to using IRiakClient in
&gt; &gt;&gt; order to take advantage of PBClusterConfig, is that so?
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; Any insight would be appreciated, thanks!
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; Ahmed
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; &gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; --
&gt; &gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt; &gt; Software Engineer
&gt; &gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; &gt; http://basho.com/
&gt; &gt;
&gt;



-- 
Sean Cribbs 
Software Engineer
Basho Technologies, Inc.
http://basho.com/
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

