---
title: "Re: running naked : suggested firewall rules"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-04-21T06:21:23-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00104"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg00102"
author_name: "Alexander Sicular"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-04-21T06:21:23-07:00
---


Regardless of which network space risk lives in, I would control 
access to it via a firewall. Set it up so that only your application 
stack has access. I think there are some nginx scripts floating around 
the interweb. Would be nice if Basho compiled a resource in this area...



@siculars on twitter
http://siculars.posterous.com

Sent from my iPhone

On Apr 21, 2010, at 8:27, richard bucker  wrote:


Point taken.

If a riak server is insecure in the DMZ then it's also insecure in 
the enterprise. Generally speaking what is the best way to secure 
it? ie; encrypting messages, events, requests, responses and so on. 
(I happen to like IPSEC for this sort of thing but I'm not an expert)


/r

On Wed, Apr 21, 2010 at 8:08 AM, Alexander Sicular 
 wrote:

Don't do it. Does your DMZ parse http?

On 2010-04-21, richard bucker  wrote:
&gt; everyone knows it's better to run behind a firewall; at least 
that's what
&gt; the firewall vendors and lazy admins say; however there are use- 
cases when
&gt; it's either not possible or practical... unless an app on the box 
opens some
&gt; wildly popular port or something... so in the hopes that I've set 
my root...
&gt; is it safe to run riak in the DMZ? Is there a recommended way to 
run riak in

&gt; the DMZ?
&gt;
&gt; /r
&gt;

--
Sent from my mobile device

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

