---
title: "Re: Riak n00b questions"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-03-15T05:09:41-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg02649"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg02628"
author_name: "Ishwar"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-03-15T05:09:41-07:00
---


Thanks Eric.

The python client unit test code had what I wanted :)

--
Ishwar.



&gt;\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;From: Eric Moritz 
&gt;To: Ishwar 
&gt;Cc: riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;Sent: Monday, March 14, 2011 9:18 PM
&gt;Subject: Re: Riak n00b questions
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;Here's a quick example of the map-highs-by-month query in the Riak Fast Track:
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;http://pastebin.com/FGieAFVy
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;Check out this link to get the goog.csv file that is used in that query:
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;http://wiki.basho.com/Loading-Data-and-Running-MapReduce-Queries.html
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;Take a glance over the README for the Riak python client:
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;https://github.com/basho/riak-python-client
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;Let me know if you need more help,
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;Eric.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;On Mon, Mar 14, 2011 at 10:31 AM, Ishwar  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;Hi Sean,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;Thanks for the quick response. I'll use load-balancers to distribute the load.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;2. My familiarity with erlang and Javascript is minimal. Would somebody 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;answer if the following things are doable/advisable to do?
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;     a. Most of the processes I want to run on the data are in python and 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;php. Is it possible to call these processes from erlang/javascript?
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;It is not currently, but we are looking into the feasibility of supporting 
&gt;&gt;&gt;other languages.  However, I might say that if you're already doing Python 
&gt;&gt;&gt;and PHP, it would be worth your while (and not difficult) to learn 
&gt;&gt;&gt;JavaScript.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;We already have a whole bunch of processing on the data written in Python and 
&gt;&gt;PHP, and porting them to Javascript is (1) very tedious, and (2) Javascript 
&gt;&gt;does not support the required functionality. For example, we do a bunch of 
&gt;&gt;NLP analysis on the data.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;Given these, is it advisable if I expose these processes as webservices and 
&gt;&gt;call them from javascript/erlang?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;     b. I've been looking for MapReduce tutorials for python client, but 
&gt;&gt;&gt;couldn't find any. Can somebody point to a sample MapReduce from python 
&gt;&gt;&gt;client, for example, to retrieve multiple records from Riak? (Given a set of 
&gt;&gt;&gt;keys [1,2,3,4], retrieve the records for these from Riak using MapReduce).
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;I don't know of any, but we have a decent number of Pythonistas on the list. 
&gt;&gt;&gt;Hopefully one of them can help you out.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;Pythonistas, where art thou? :)
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;--
&gt;&gt;Regards,
&gt;&gt;Ishwar.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt;riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

