---
title: "Re: Web doc buglet"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-10-29T14:23:26-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg09078"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg09074"
author_name: "Tin Le"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-10-29T14:23:26-07:00
---


Hi Mark,

Thanks. I've opened new issue for this outdated fast-track doc. I am
sure I'll be adding more as I or my engineers find them.

One of the thing we've found missing and really need is the geospatial
indexing mongodb has. We've just pushed our updated app to both iTunes
and Google Playstore that uses this as an intrinsic part of our app. We
decided to stay with mongo as there was no time to code up equivalent for
riak.

The docs for riak isn't too bad. It seem to be lagging behind in
documenting the new features. I've also seen conflicting
recommendations. There was recent discussion about 256, 512 or even
higher number of partitions in production deployment. I know I saw that
in one of the fast start doc. There was no explanation in the doc as to
why chose a particular number for a usage pattern.

So things like that is frustrating for me and my engineeres, who has
never used riak before. I would like to see a single Best Practices doc
for sysadmin/operations who has to set up a cluster and manages it. Then
another for the developers who will be using riak.

The fast-track doc is good, but it need to be maintained and keep
up-to-date.

Sorry, just a quick dump of stuffs from my head.

Tin


&gt; Hi Tin,
&gt;
&gt; Responses in-line.
&gt;
&gt; On Mon, Oct 29, 2012 at 1:18 PM, Tin Le  wrote:
&gt;&gt; Sorry if this is the wrong place. Is there a specific email address I
&gt;&gt; can send to for buglets I found on Basho doc site?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/tutorials/fast-track/Basic-Riak-API-Operations/
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Does not mention "GET /buckets/bucket\\_name" that this page does:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/references/apis/http/HTTP-Get-Bucket-Properties/
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt; If you have any docs bugs that need filing, go ahead and add them here:
&gt;
&gt; https://github.com/basho/basho\\_docs/issues
&gt;
&gt; We usually get to them pretty quick. (Bonus points for submitting pull
&gt; requests.)
&gt;
&gt;&gt; I am trying to convince our engineers to move from mongo to riak, and
&gt;&gt; running various doc snafus.
&gt;
&gt; As far as convincing your team to move to Riak, what are the specific
&gt; doc (and general) snafus that are standing in your way right now?
&gt; We'll get them straightened out. :)
&gt;
&gt; Mark
&gt; twitter.com/pharkmillups
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Tin


\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

