---
title: "Re: RAM and CPU requirements"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-04-20T20:05:03-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16042"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16037"
author_name: "Shankar Dhanasekaran"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-04-20T20:05:03-07:00
---


Thanks Basho team for addressing every single question :-) It's very much
supportive.

On Mon, Apr 20, 2015 at 7:08 AM, Kota Uenishi  wrote:

&gt; Hi,
&gt;
&gt; Generally speaking, 48/64GB RAM with 20TB storage is enough strong for
&gt; typical usage of Riak CS, like yours. I would like to mention that too
&gt; large disk size per node with narrow bandwidth may lead to less
&gt; availability - time to recover degraded replicas in case of node/disk
&gt; failure may take longer (because larger disk means longer time to
&gt; recover). That should not be longer than MTBF. To ensure the
&gt; availability, please make sure you have 5 nodes or more.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Sat, Apr 4, 2015 at 3:53 AM, Shankar Dhanasekaran
&gt;  wrote:
&gt; &gt; Hi all,
&gt; &gt; what is the RAM and CPU requirements for RIAK CS server with 20 TB
&gt; storage
&gt; &gt; and about a max of 100 concurrent requests (mix of put and get) with a
&gt; max
&gt; &gt; file size of request being less than 50mb. I am just looking for a rough
&gt; &gt; figure so that I don't have to buy a really powerful server where it's
&gt; not
&gt; &gt; needed.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; In this talk https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nMyU6-pU6aw, Andy Gross
&gt; says
&gt; &gt; "you don't want to run these on big enterprise servers but on basically
&gt; crap
&gt; &gt; and when it dies ... install new servers"
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; My servers come with 48/64 GB RAM with i7 quad core processors. My need
&gt; is
&gt; &gt; basically more data storage than handling more requests concurrently. So
&gt; &gt; what is the ideal 'crap' config for my need?
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Thanks,
&gt; &gt; Shankar
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Kota UENISHI / @kuenishi
&gt; Basho Japan KK
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

