---
title: "Re: Yokozuna performance: single large index vs many smaller indexes"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-11-22T11:49:29-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15215"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15162"
author_name: "Geoff Garbers"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-11-22T11:49:29-08:00
---


Hey Eric.

Awesome! Thanks so much for the feedback. I really appreciate the help.

I guess I'll have to test each method on our infrastructure to really know for 
myself.

Cheers,
Geoff

Eric Redmond  wrote:

&gt;Geoff, comments inline.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;On Nov 13, 2014, at 3:13 PM, Geoff Garbers  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;Hi all.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;I've been looking around for a bit with some sort of guidelines as to how best 
&gt;to structure search indexes within Riak 2.0 - and have yet to come up with 
&gt;anything that satisfies my questions.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;I came across https://github.com/basho/yokozuna/blob/develop/docs/ADMIN.md, 
&gt;where it talks about the one-to-one and many-to-one ways of indexing. It 
&gt;mentions in passing the potential for lower latency of queries and efficient 
&gt;deletion of index data when using the one-to-one method - without really 
&gt;mentioning too much about when one method could significantly outweigh the 
&gt;other in performance.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;However, something I'm still not sure on is when is it considered a good idea 
&gt;to use multiple indexes, versus one massive index.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;If you'll bear with me, I'll use this simple scenario:
&gt;
&gt;I have lists, and I have contacts within these lists. In total, I have 100 
&gt;million contacts that I am dealing with. Each of them not more than 20KB in 
&gt;size, and they all follow the exact same JSON object structure. Ignoring 
&gt;application design for simplicity's sake, let's say I could choose between the 
&gt;following two ways of storing lists and contacts:
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;Having two buckets: lists and contacts.
&gt;All 100 million contacts are stored in the contacts bucket. Each contact 
&gt;object is linked to its corresponding list through a list\\_key property, and 
&gt;all the contacts are stored in the same single search index.
&gt;
&gt;Having multiple buckets: lists, and for each list, having a separate bucket 
&gt;contacts\\_{listkey}.
&gt;Using this structure, each contact\\_{listkey} bucket would have its own search 
&gt;index.
&gt;
&gt;With these two scenarios in mind; and making the assumption that we're dealing 
&gt;with 100 million contacts:
&gt;
&gt;Which would be the better method of implementing the search indexes?
&gt;
&gt;If you have 100M contacts, and giving each contacts it's own index might be 
&gt;fine, but note that indexes have their own overhead in both Solr and Riak 
&gt;cluster metadata. I wouldn't go this route if your contact\\_listkey measures in 
&gt;the hundreds or thousands.
&gt;
&gt;At which point would one solution be far better than the other?
&gt;
&gt;If your cluster has 100M objects, note that a solr shard wouldn't have 100M 
&gt;objects. Instead, if you had a, say, 10 node cluster, depending on your 
&gt;replication value, a single solr node would have 30M.
&gt;
&gt;How much does Yokozuna differ from stock-standard Solr? All the search results 
&gt;I could find on Solr specifically weren't talking about indexes greater than 
&gt;60,000 objects, yet Riak is required to be able to deal with 100's of millions 
&gt;of rows.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;Solr can't manage far more than 60k objects (I've run 10M on my laptop, 100M 
&gt;per shard is safe, and I hear the tip-top limit per shard is 2 Billion unique 
&gt;terms per index segment due to Lucene's implementation). I think you'll have 
&gt;to experiment with your use-case and hardware, but you shouldn't have a 
&gt;problem.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;Any help at all with this is really appreciated.
&gt;
&gt;At some point, I do realise that I will need to set this up for myself, and 
&gt;performance my own tests on it. However, I was hoping that those currently 
&gt;using Riak in production might have some more insight into this.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;Regards,
&gt;
&gt;Geoff
&gt;
&gt;\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;riak-users mailing list
&gt;riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

