---
title: "Re: Riak Search VS other query systems"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-08-20T12:31:19-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14763"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14762"
author_name: "John Daily"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-08-20T12:31:19-07:00
---


I don't have benchmarks to discuss query performance for different tools at
different sizes, but I'd like to point out that the ultimate search tool
for Riak is to not search at all.

Riak Search, 2i, MapReduce are all capable tools, but they don't scale
nearly as well as straight key/value requests, and it is often possible to
model your data around the latter.

I covered this in https://basho.com/riak-development-anti-patterns/ and the
next edition of Eric Redmond's Little Riak Book (http://littleriakbook.com)
will have more discussion on the topic, but if at all possible, create your
query results as reports as the data is ingested, instead of attempting to
find it all later.

-John



On Wed, Aug 20, 2014 at 3:21 PM, Alex De la rosa 
wrote:

&gt; Any thoughts about this?
&gt;
&gt; One thing it worries me about Riak Search is that if one index has several
&gt; millions of object to search for maybe it becomes slow? 2i might be faster
&gt; then?
&gt;
&gt; Thanks!
&gt; Alex
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Tue, Aug 19, 2014 at 8:47 AM, Alex De la rosa 
&gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi there,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I had been seeing lately Riak Search as an ultimate way to query Riak...
&gt;&gt; and it seems recommended to use over MapReduce and even 2i... said so...
&gt;&gt; should we try to always use Riak Search over the other systems?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Is there any situation in which MapReduce could be a better approach than
&gt;&gt; Riak Search?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Same goes for 2i... I believe 2i is an optimal approach if you just want
&gt;&gt; keys and know very well what are you looking for, but out of that, should
&gt;&gt; Riak Search try to replace all 2i uses?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Practical example: If you are twitter and want to get twits for the
&gt;&gt; hashtag #Riak, what would be the best approach? 2i? Riak Search? MapReduce?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks!
&gt;&gt; Alex
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

