---
title: "Re: Load balancer"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-02-02T09:35:20-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13568"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13567"
author_name: "Roberto Aloi"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-02-02T09:35:20-08:00
---


Hi Konstantin,

Riak exposes a number of metrics - such as counters and histograms - that
you can use to monitor your nodes' health.
Metrics are available through the HTTP API via the /stats endpoint.
For details, see:
http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/ops/running/stats-and-monitoring/

Cheers,

Roberto Aloi
@robertoaloi



On Sun, Feb 2, 2014 at 6:23 PM, Konstantin Kalin  wrote:

&gt; Sorry jumping into the discussion. What is a best way to monitor Riak node
&gt; health? Most loadbalancer uses HTTP request to check if a node is alive.
&gt;
&gt; Currently we use Riak Java client to load balance requests to Riak. The
&gt; issue is if a node gets removed or added all Java servers need to update
&gt; configuration to reflect the changes. It's kinda annoying for operation
&gt; team. So we started thinking about putting LB between Riak cluster and Java
&gt; clients.
&gt;
&gt; Thank you,
&gt; Konstantin.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Feb 2, 2014, at 8:25 AM, Gideon de Kok  wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Mark,
&gt;
&gt; Your throughput of your total cluster will still be dependent on the
&gt; throughput on that specific node:
&gt; It can coordinate requests, but stays responsible for the actual response
&gt; to the client.
&gt;
&gt; Load balancers not only help to increase performance by fanning out the
&gt; requests to multiple servers,
&gt; it will also increase the availability of your cluster in terms of client
&gt; to server connections.
&gt;
&gt; Cheers,
&gt;
&gt; On 2 Feb 2014 at 17:20:28, markrthomas 
&gt; (mark.tho...@equifax.com)
&gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Hello
&gt;
&gt; Any node in a Riak cluster can coordinate requests for any other Riak node
&gt; that is responsible for the data you're reading/writing.
&gt;
&gt; What is the advantage of fronting a Riak cluster with a load-balancer?
&gt;
&gt; Thanks
&gt;
&gt; Mark
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; View this message in context:
&gt; http://riak-users.197444.n3.nabble.com/Load-balancer-tp4030414.html
&gt; Sent from the Riak Users mailing list archive at 
&gt; Nabble.com
&gt; .
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;


-- 
Roberto Aloi
---
Website: http://roberto-aloi.com
Twitter: @robertoaloi
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

