---
title: "Re: Riak ring size"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-10-03T11:01:25-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12507"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12506"
author_name: "John Kavanagh"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-10-03T11:01:25-07:00
---


Thanks , that makes sense and I think it gives me my answer. 

I suppose I'm trying to understand if say , an acceptable perf decrease of ~%5 
is a healthy trade off in order to mitigate against a future (but possibly 
unlikely) capacity cap . 

John 

On 3 Oct 2013, at 18:51, Sean Cribbs  wrote:

&gt; Your main concern with greater numbers of partitions is contention for IO 
&gt; (and CPU time for the vnodes to process requests). Consider that with 6 
&gt; nodes, you will have 170(+/- 1) partitions running on each physical node. 
&gt; That's \\*at least\\* 170 files open, all scribbling to and reading from disk. 
&gt; You might get away with 512, but my experience tells me to be wary of that 
&gt; for small clusters. I think unless you're doing big-web-property-level 
&gt; traffic you won't need to grow your cluster as large as you think, especially 
&gt; with machines that beefy.
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Thu, Oct 3, 2013 at 12:46 PM, John Kavanagh  wrote:
&gt; Hi Sean ,
&gt; 
&gt; What would the perform issues be with setting a ring size to 1024 (instead of 
&gt; 128 or 256) on a 6 node cluster? 
&gt; 
&gt; I can see the possibility of memory overflow (which is not a high concern on 
&gt; a 128G machine ) , but other than that , are there any additional concerns 
&gt; (with Bitcask) ? 
&gt; 
&gt; I'm trying to understand if there is a significant performance degradation 
&gt; with a value of 1024 versus future proofing growth.
&gt; 
&gt; Cheers,
&gt; 
&gt; John 
&gt; 
&gt; On 3 Oct 2013, at 16:33, Sean Cribbs  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Hi John,
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Our rule-of-thumb is 8-64 partitions per physical node, so a good starting 
&gt;&gt; point for a 6-node cluster would be 128 or 256. 256 will let you expand up 
&gt;&gt; to about 30 nodes without needing a ring resize.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On Thu, Oct 3, 2013 at 10:14 AM, John Kavanagh  wrote:
&gt;&gt; Hi all,
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; I'm trying to understand the optimal ring size / vnode config for a 6 node 
&gt;&gt; Riak cluster, which will most likely expand to many more nodes over time . 
&gt;&gt; Does everyone bump from the default of 64 to 1024 to facilitate future 
&gt;&gt; growth ? I can provide more detailed capacity metrics off list if necessary.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; John 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; -- 
&gt;&gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt;&gt; Software Engineer
&gt;&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt;&gt; http://basho.com/
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; -- 
&gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt; Software Engineer
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; http://basho.com/

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

