---
title: "Re: OSX Riak 1.4 Internal Server Error on all map reduce jobs"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-10-08T12:12:43-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12548"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12512"
author_name: "Luke Bakken"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-10-08T12:12:43-07:00
---


Hi Jeff,

Just for kicks, change your machine's time zone to GMT, verify via the
"date" command, and re-try the Erlang snippet.

--
Luke Bakken
CSE
lbak...@basho.com


On Thu, Oct 3, 2013 at 6:38 PM, jeffrey k eliasen  wrote:

&gt; Interesting… looks like that Erlang doesn't like something. I don't
&gt; actually know what to do from here (Erlang is still a big black box to me).
&gt;
&gt; escorpiao:~ seawolf$ /usr/local/Cellar/riak/1.4.1/erts-5.9.1/bin/erl
&gt; Erlang R15B01 (erts-5.9.1) [source] [64-bit] [smp:4:4] [async-threads:0]
&gt; [kernel-poll:false]
&gt;
&gt; Eshell V5.9.1 (abort with ^G)
&gt; 1&gt; erlang:localtime\\_to\\_universaltime({{2013,9,28},{8,0,35}}, true).
&gt; \\*\\* exception error: bad argument
&gt; in function erlang:localtime\\_to\\_universaltime/2
&gt; called as
&gt; erlang:localtime\\_to\\_universaltime({{2013,9,28},{8,0,35}},true)
&gt; 2&gt; q().
&gt; ok
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; ----------
&gt;
&gt; jeffrey k eliasen - technologist
&gt; blog  | 
&gt; linkedin|
&gt; google+  | 
&gt; facebook|
&gt; twitter 
&gt;
&gt; On Oct 4, 2013, at 05:39 , Luke Bakken  wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Homebrew installed Riak will use the Erlang located in this directory:
&gt;
&gt; /usr/local/Cellar/riak/1.4.2/erts-5.9.1/bin/erl
&gt;
&gt; Could you retry the code snippet using the erl located there? Also, the
&gt; output of which -a erl could be useful. I think you should uninstall your
&gt; homebrew-installed Erlang as it's a more recent version than the one
&gt; installed via homebrew for Riak. Personally I use kerl to manage Erlang
&gt; versions instead of homebrew.
&gt;
&gt; Thanks
&gt; --
&gt; Luke Bakken
&gt; CSE
&gt; lbak...@basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Wed, Oct 2, 2013 at 7:25 PM, jeffrey k eliasen  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks for looking into this!
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Same machine:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; escorpiao:programming\\_in\\_c seawolf$ date
&gt;&gt; Thu Oct 3 10:22:31 BNT 2013
&gt;&gt; escorpiao:programming\\_in\\_c seawolf$ erl
&gt;&gt; Erlang R16B01 (erts-5.10.2) [source] [64-bit] [smp:4:4]
&gt;&gt; [async-threads:10] [hipe] [kernel-poll:false] [dtrace]
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Eshell V5.10.2 (abort with ^G)
&gt;&gt; 1&gt; erlang:localtime\\_to\\_universaltime({{2013,9,28},{8,0,35}}, true).
&gt;&gt; {{2013,9,28},{0,0,35}}
&gt;&gt; 2&gt; q().
&gt;&gt; ok
&gt;&gt; escorpiao:programming\\_in\\_c seawolf$
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; How do I know for sure that I'm using the same Erlang binary as Riak is?
&gt;&gt; I installed it via Homebrew and don't know off the top of my head how to
&gt;&gt; verify which Erlang it's picking up (or if I even have more than one).
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; jeffrey k eliasen
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Find and follow me on:
&gt;&gt; Blog: http://jeff.jke.net
&gt;&gt; Twitter: http://twitter.com/jeffreyeliasen
&gt;&gt; Facebook: http://facebook.com/jeffrey.eliasen
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Oct 2, 2013, at 23:44 , Luke Bakken  wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi Jeff,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Can you provide the output of the date command on the machine where Riak
&gt;&gt; is running as well as the one from which you're running curl? I'm
&gt;&gt; assuming it's the same workstation, but I'd like to be sure.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Based on the stack traces you provide, the 
&gt;&gt; localtime\\_to\\_universaltimefunction is failing when called with
&gt;&gt; [{{2013,9,28},{8,0,35}},true] as the arguments, which really doesn't
&gt;&gt; make sense.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Could you run that method via the erl command in the Erlang build used
&gt;&gt; by your Riak installation? I have built Riak from source so erl is in the
&gt;&gt; erts-5.9.1/bin directory, for instance:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; lbakken ~/Projects/basho/riak\\_ee-1.4/dev/dev1/erts-5.9.1/bin
&gt;&gt; ((riak\\_ee-1.4.2))
&gt;&gt; $ ./erl
&gt;&gt; Erlang R15B01 (erts-5.9.1) [source] [64-bit] [smp:8:8] [async-threads:0]
&gt;&gt; [kernel-poll:false]
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Eshell V5.9.1 (abort with ^G)
&gt;&gt; 1&gt; erlang:localtime\\_to\\_universaltime({{2013,9,28},{8,0,35}}, true).
&gt;&gt; {{2013,9,28},{15,0,35}}
&gt;&gt; 2&gt; q().
&gt;&gt; ok
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; Luke Bakken
&gt;&gt; CSE
&gt;&gt; lbak...@basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

