---
title: "Re: Changing the filesystem"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-08-13T09:27:59-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12005"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12002"
author_name: "dilip kumar"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-08-13T09:27:59-07:00
---


Hi Hector,

This is what happens, after changing the directories in riak\\_kv section on 
/etc/riak/app.config:

# riak restart

  ok
# stanchion restart
  ok
# riak-cs start
   riak-cs failed to start within 15 seconds,

   see the output of 'riak-cs console' for more information.
   If you want to wait longer, set the environment variable
   WAIT\\_FOR\\_ERLANG to the number of seconds to wait.
# riak ping

    Node 'riak@machine105' not responding to pings.

Below is the output of `riak-cs console`

Eshell V5.9.1  (abort with ^G)
(riak-cs@machine105)1&gt; 12:24:36.456 [error] CRASH REPORT Process &lt;0.130.0&gt; with 
0 neighbours exited with reason: {tcp,econnrefused} in gen\\_server:init\\_it/6 
line 320
/usr/lib64/riak-cs/lib/os\\_mon-2.2.9/priv/bin/memsup: Erlang has closed.
                                                                        Erlang 
has closed
                                                                                
         {"Kernel pid 
terminated",application\\_controller,"{application\\_start\\_failure,riak\\_cs,{shutdown,{riak\\_cs\\_app,start,[normal,[]]}}}"}
Kernel pid terminated (application\\_controller) 
({application\\_start\\_failure,riak\\_cs,{shutdown,{riak\\_cs\\_app,start,[normal,[]]}}})


Regards,
Dilip


\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
 From: Hector Castro 
To: dilip kumar  
Cc: "riak-users@lists.basho.com"  
Sent: Tuesday, 13 August 2013 7:49 PM
Subject: Re: Changing the filesystem
 

Hi Dilip,

Are you making these changes to Riak's app.config?

If the `riak-cs start` command isn't working, that's generally an
indicator that Riak is not running. What happens when you execute
`riak ping`?

--
Hector


On Tue, Aug 13, 2013 at 9:20 AM, dilip kumar  wrote:
&gt; Hi,
&gt;
&gt; How do I change the filesystem where the RIAK CS buckets could run. Changing
&gt; the data\\_root values in storage\\_backend is not working as it is specified in
&gt; a FAQ
&gt; (http://docs.basho.com/riakcs/latest/cookbooks/faqs/riak-cs/#is-it-possible-to-specify-a-file-system-where-my-r).
&gt;
&gt; When I change the below specified data\\_root values in Storage Backend, the
&gt; "stanchion start" and "riak-cs start" are not working.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; {add\\_paths, ["/usr/lib64/riak-cs/lib/riak\\_cs-1.3.1/ebin"]},
&gt; {storage\\_backend, riak\\_cs\\_kv\\_multi\\_backend},
&gt; {multi\\_backend\\_prefix\\_list, [{&lt;&lt;"0b:"&gt;&gt;, be\\_blocks}]},
&gt; {multi\\_backend\\_default, be\\_default},
&gt; {multi\\_backend, [
&gt;    {be\\_default, riak\\_kv\\_eleveldb\\_backend, [
&gt;        {max\\_open\\_files, 50},
&gt;        {data\\_root, "/var/lib/riak/leveldb"}
&gt;    ]},
&gt;    {be\\_blocks, riak\\_kv\\_bitcask\\_backend, [
&gt;        {data\\_root, "/var/lib/riak/bitcask"}
&gt;    ]}
&gt; ]},
&gt;
&gt; Regards,
&gt; Dilip
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

