---
title: "[ANN] Riak 2.0.0beta1"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-04-16T09:53:38-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14099"
author_name: "Tom Santero"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-04-16T09:53:38-07:00
---


Hello Riak Users,

The Basho Team is happy to release Riak 2.0.0-beta1. The source tarball and
pre-built packages are available for download [0]. Note that we've added
support for FreeBSD 10, and removed support for SmartOS 1.6.

By calling this version "beta" we consider this release feature frozen, as
opposed to the previous pre-release builds which were still moving targets.
Similar to the pre-releases, 2.0.0beta1 is not intended for production use,
and may contain bugs. Over the coming weeks the Basho engineering team will
continue testing Riak rigorously, to identify and squash any bugs that may
have been introduced with the number of features we're excited to deliver.

As always, feedback from the community is invaluable. We strongly encourage
you to download beta1, test it for yourself and report any issues you
encounter via the mailing list or on GitHub.

You'll find a getting started with Riak 2.0 guide on the docs [1]. If
you're completely new to 2.0 and the features we've added--such as bucket
types, Solr, strong consistency and data types--you'll find links to the
relevant documentation, supplementary reading materials and conference
videos there.

Also note that as we head toward a GA release of Riak 2.0 the docs site is
being updated on an almost-daily basis. Some features may not yet be fully
documented. If you come across anything in the documentation that is
incorrect, or even poorly worded, please feel free to open an issue or
submit a pull request[2].

Regards,
Tom

[0] http://docs.basho.com/riak/2.0.0beta1/downloads/
[1] http://docs.basho.com/riak/2.0.0beta1/intro-v20/
[2] https://github.com/basho/basho\\_docs
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

