---
title: "Re: Decipher Solr error messages"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2017-07-01T07:31:24-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg18306"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg18299"
author_name: "Fred Dushin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2017-07-01T07:31:24-07:00
---


My guess is that you have data that is either not UTF-8 encoded or is failing 
to decode into a JSON payload (peeking quickly at the mochi\\_json code, there 
are a lot of case statements, as you would expect in a parser).

There is a call to error logging on line 165 in Riak 2.2.2, so I assume you are 
on that version of Riak?

-Fred

&gt; On Jun 28, 2017, at 9:11 AM, Mark Richard Thomas  
&gt; wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; Hello
&gt; 
&gt; I'm seeing a number of Solr related issues in my error.log:
&gt; 
&gt; 2017-06-28 06:02:58.520 [error] &lt;0.2094.0&gt;@yz\\_doc:extract\\_fields:165 An 
&gt; exception occurred extracting fields from value with reason 
&gt; {case\\_clause,&lt;&lt;200,162,171,163,243,217,229,228,195,79,125,154,98,147,163,118,199,52,170,154,85,31,29,208&gt;&gt;}.
&gt; Value: 
&gt; &lt;&lt;200,162,171,163,243,217,229,228,195,79,125,154,98,147,163,118,199,52,170,154,85,31,29,208&gt;&gt;
&gt; 2017-06-28 06:02:58.520 [error] 
&gt; &lt;0.2094.0&gt;@yz\\_solrq\\_helper:single\\_op\\_batch:342 Updating a single Solr 
&gt; operation failed for index &lt;&lt;"disqual"&gt;&gt; with bad request.
&gt; 
&gt; 2017-06-28 06:03:34.191 [error] &lt;0.2103.0&gt;@yz\\_doc:extract\\_fields:165 An 
&gt; exception occurred extracting fields from value with reason invalid\\_utf8. 
&gt; Value: &lt;&lt;"{ \\"company\\"...........
&gt; 
&gt; I think these fall under 2 categories: an issue with the 'disqual' index and 
&gt; 'invalid\\_utf8'.
&gt; 
&gt; Any ideas on identifying where the issues occur?
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks
&gt; 
&gt; Mark
&gt; Equifax Limited is registered in England with Registered No. 2425920. 
&gt; Registered Office: Capital House, 25 Chapel Street, London NW1 5DS. Equifax 
&gt; Limited is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
&gt; Equifax Touchstone Limited is registered in Scotland with Registered No. 
&gt; SC113401. Registered Office: Exchange Tower,19 Canning Street, Edinburgh, EH3 
&gt; 8EH.
&gt; Equifax Commercial Services Limited is registered in the Republic of Ireland 
&gt; with Registered No. 215393. Registered Office: IDA Business & Technology 
&gt; Park, Rosslare Road, Drinagh, Wexford.
&gt; 
&gt; This message contains information from Equifax which may be confidential and 
&gt; privileged. If you are not an intended recipient, please refrain from any 
&gt; disclosure, copying, distribution or use of this information and note that 
&gt; such actions are prohibited. If you have received this transmission in error, 
&gt; please notify by e-mail postmas...@equifax.com.
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com


\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

