---
title: "Re: Object metadata via NodeJS client"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-04-08T12:22:11-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15996"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15994"
author_name: "Luke Bakken"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-04-08T12:22:11-07:00
---


José,

Check out the following methods in the document:

http://basho.github.io/riak-nodejs-client/classes/RiakObject.html

hasLinks()
getLinks()
setLinks()

--
Luke Bakken
Engineer
lbak...@basho.com


On Wed, Apr 8, 2015 at 8:56 AM, Jose G. Quenum
 wrote:
&gt; Thanks a bunch Luke. It's now getting clear. However the links manipulation 
&gt; is not available yet on the API docs. I guess it's just a matter of update.
&gt; I will now start re implementing my riak data access with this client. When I 
&gt; get questions I will turn to you guys.
&gt; Regards
&gt; Jose
&gt;
&gt; Sent from my iPad
&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Apr 7, 2015, at 6:50 PM, Luke Bakken  wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi José,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Please refer to this document:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; http://basho.github.io/riak-nodejs-client/classes/RiakObject.html
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; When you retrieve a value, you get a RiakObject back:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; client.fetchValue({ bucket: 'test', key: 'foo' }, function (err, rslt) {
&gt;&gt; var riakObj = rslt.values.shift();
&gt;&gt; });
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; This RiakObject exposes several methods related to metadata.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I just released version 1.1.0 which adds support for links. You'll see
&gt;&gt; that in the API docs now.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; Luke Bakken
&gt;&gt; Engineer
&gt;&gt; lbak...@basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Tue, Apr 7, 2015 at 5:27 AM, José Ghislain Quenum
&gt;&gt;  wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt; Luke,
&gt;&gt;&gt; In my current implementation, I use metadata for both links and secondary
&gt;&gt;&gt; index.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; On Mon, Apr 6, 2015 at 4:03 PM, Luke Bakken  wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Hi José,
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Other than links, what object metadata are you trying to access or modify?
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Thanks -
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Luke Bakken
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Engineer
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; lbak...@basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; On Sat, Apr 4, 2015 at 6:56 AM, José Ghislain Quenum
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;  wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Thanks Brian for your reply and trying to work out the links part. I
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; took a look at the RiakObject and could see how to manipulate it with
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; FetchValue and the Secondary Index. However, I failed to figure out
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; how to access the meta while reading an object. Just as an example,
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; when you're updating an object you could be using some meta data, and
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; some of them come from a prior read.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; If you could just share some examples with code that'd be very helpful.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Thanks José
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

