---
title: "Re: changing riak-cs server hostname"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-07-09T12:46:54-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11429"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg11422"
author_name: "Kelly McLaughlin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-07-09T12:46:54-07:00
---


Guy,

First, in your riak\\_cs config file you'll want to change the value of
cs\\_root\\_host to "s3.bksv.com". Then in the riak\\_cs\\_control config file
change the value of cs\\_hostname to also be "s3.bksv.com". That should be
all you need to do as long as \\*.s3.bksv.com resolves to your RiakCS machine.

Kelly


On Mon, Jul 8, 2013 at 11:59 PM, Guy Morton  wrote:

&gt; Let me be more specific...
&gt;
&gt; %% Instance of Riak CS you wish to talk to.
&gt; {cs\\_hostname, "s3.amazonaws.com" },
&gt; {cs\\_port, 8080 },
&gt; {cs\\_protocol, "http" },
&gt;
&gt; %% Proxy information; necessary if you are using s3.amazonaws.comas
&gt; %% your hostname.
&gt; {cs\\_proxy\\_host, "s3.bksv.com" },
&gt; {cs\\_proxy\\_port, 8080 },
&gt;
&gt; Now, if I address the machine as s3.amazonaws.com from my local machine
&gt; (using a hosts file to map that to the RiakCS machine's IP) it works fine.
&gt;
&gt; If I try and access it as s3.bksv.com I can list buckets but attempting
&gt; to open them gets me an access denied response.
&gt;
&gt; So I'm a bit confused.
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Guy Morton
&gt; Web Development Manager
&gt; Brüel & Kjær EMS
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; From: riak-users [riak-users-boun...@lists.basho.com] on behalf of Guy
&gt; Morton [guy.mor...@bksv.com]
&gt; Sent: Tuesday, 9 July 2013 3:54 PM
&gt; To: riak-users [riak-users@lists.basho.com]
&gt; Subject: changing riak-cs server hostname
&gt;
&gt; Hi guys
&gt;
&gt; I have a riak-cs server I've successfully got working using
&gt; s3.amazonaws.com as the hostname. I'm using host files to access it form
&gt; my local machine. What do I need to do to change the hostname?
&gt;
&gt; I want to be able to use both Amazon S3 and RiakCS, you see.
&gt;
&gt; regards
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Guy Morton
&gt; Web Development Manager
&gt; Brüel & Kjær EMS
&gt;
&gt; This e-mail is confidential and may be read, copied and used only by the
&gt; intended recipient. If you have received it in error, please contact the
&gt; sender immediately by return e-mail. Please then delete the e-mail and do
&gt; not disclose its contents to any other person.
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt; This e-mail is confidential and may be read, copied and used only by the
&gt; intended recipient. If you have received it in error, please contact the
&gt; sender immediately by return e-mail. Please then delete the e-mail and do
&gt; not disclose its contents to any other person.
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

