---
title: "Re: Querying SOLR outside of Riak"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2016-05-15T01:49:54-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg17355"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg17354"
author_name: "Vitaly"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2016-05-15T01:49:54-07:00
---


Keep in mind that the /search endpoint returns consolidated results (i.e. a
query runs over all nodes of a cluster), while /internal\\_solr is only for
the node you run it on.

I'm not sure what you mean by "extra stress", as running queries is exactly
what the /search endpoint is meant for. Having said that, I would think
that any activity can add stress, you should measure what kind of stress
your system creates, and plan your cluster accordingly.

Regards,
Vitaly

On Sun, May 15, 2016 at 11:18 AM, Alex De la rosa 
wrote:

&gt; Hi Vitaly,
&gt;
&gt; I know that you can access search via HTTP through Riak like this:
&gt;
&gt; http://localhost:8098/search/query/famous?wt=json&q=leader:true AND
&gt; age\\_i:[25 TO \\*]
&gt;
&gt; I didn't find documentation about this, but according to your words I
&gt; could access SOLR directly like this?
&gt;
&gt; http://localhost:8093/internal\\_solr/famous/select?wt=json&q=leader:true
&gt; AND age\\_i:[25 TO \\*]
&gt;
&gt; If I go through "8098/search" would it be adding extra stress into the
&gt; Riak cluster? Or is recommended to go through "8098/search" instead of
&gt; "8093/internal\\_solr"??
&gt;
&gt; I just want to see if I can make use of SOLR with an external mapreduce
&gt; platform (Disco) without giving extra stress to Riak.
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; Rohman
&gt;
&gt; On Sun, May 15, 2016 at 12:07 PM, Vitaly &lt;13vitam...@gmail.com&gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; There is, you can \\*query \\*Solr directly via HTTP, at least as of Riak
&gt;&gt; 2.0.x
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Have a look at http://:8093/internal\\_solr/#/ and
&gt;&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riak/kv/2.1.4/developing/usage/search/#querying
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Vitaly
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Sun, May 15, 2016 at 10:49 AM, Alex De la rosa &lt;
&gt;&gt; alex.rosa....@gmail.com&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Nobody knows if there is a way to access SOLR right away without going
&gt;&gt;&gt; through RIAK's interface?
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt;&gt; Alex
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; On Fri, May 13, 2016 at 11:07 PM, Alex De la rosa &lt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; alex.rosa....@gmail.com&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Hi all,
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; If I want to create a Disco cluster [ http://discoproject.org ] to
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; build statistics and compile data attacking Riak's SOLR directly without
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; using Riak, how can I do it?
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; In this way, I would leave Riak mainly for data IO (post/get) and leave
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; the heavy duty of searching and compiling data to Disco; so Riak's
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; performance shouldn't be affected for searching as mainly it will store and
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; retrieve data only.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Alex
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

