---
title: "distributed basho bench"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-09-10T09:16:41-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16507"
author_name: "Jens V. Fischer"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-09-10T09:16:41-07:00
---


Hi,

I'm trying to use basho bench in distributed mode, that is to say to use
more than one machine for load generation. The documentation and the
"--join" param of the basho\\_bench seem to indicate that this should be
possible. But so far I failed to set it up. Let's say I want to start basho
bench on two nodes, lets call them Node A and B. What parameters to
basho\\_bench are needed on A and B respectively?

I also saw the previous mail exchange on the topic (How to run bash bench
distributed, 18.5.2015). From there I gathered that I need to use something
like the following (for Node A):

Start command:
./basho\\_bench -N nodeA@127.0.0.1 -C basho\\_bench\\_cookie 

Also I need in my config (on Node A):
{remote\\_nodes, [{, 'nodeB'}]}.
{distribute\\_work, true}.

Do I need to do anything on Node B? Like starting basho\\_bench with
"--join"? What would the command look like? What do I need to put into my
config on Node B? In what order do I have to execute the commands on A and
B?

Additionally, as I am trying to use the distributed setup with a custom
driver: Does distributed mode only works with certain drivers, i.e. does
the driver need to support it? For what exactly is the passwordless SSH
needed? Because I don't have SSH access on the particular cluster, I do
however have access over TCP and are, for example, able to setup
distributed Erlang between the nodes. Any chance to get basho\\_bench working
in this setup?

Any help is greatly appreciated. I'm glad to provide more information if
needed.

Best regards
Jens
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

