---
title: "Re: Read Before Writes on Distributed Counters"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-10-17T08:49:43-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12664"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12663"
author_name: "Jeremiah Peschka"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-10-17T08:49:43-07:00
---


That's why I linked to the video - it's 60 minutes of Cribbs™ brand
pedantry.

---
Jeremiah Peschka - Founder, Brent Ozar Unlimited
MCITP: SQL Server 2008, MVP
Cloudera Certified Developer for Apache Hadoop


On Thu, Oct 17, 2013 at 10:45 AM, Sean Cribbs  wrote:

&gt; Since Jeremiah loves it when I'm pedantic, it bears mentioning that the
&gt; list of operations are rolled up immediately (not kept around), grouping by
&gt; which partition took the increment. So if I increment by 2 and then by 50,
&gt; and the increment goes to different replicas, my counter will look like
&gt; [{a, 2}, {b, 50}], for a sum of 52.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Thu, Oct 17, 2013 at 4:21 PM, Jeremiah Peschka &lt;
&gt; jeremiah.pesc...@gmail.com&gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; When you 'update' a counter, you send in an increment operation. That's
&gt;&gt; added to an internal list in Riak. The operations are then zipped up to
&gt;&gt; provide the correct counter value on read. The worst that you'll do is add
&gt;&gt; a large(ish) number of values to the op list inside Riak.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Siblings will be created, but they will not be visible to the end user
&gt;&gt; who is reading from the counter.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Check out this demo of the new counter types from Sean Cribbs:
&gt;&gt; https://vimeo.com/43903960
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; ---
&gt;&gt; Jeremiah Peschka - Founder, Brent Ozar Unlimited
&gt;&gt; MCITP: SQL Server 2008, MVP
&gt;&gt; Cloudera Certified Developer for Apache Hadoop
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Thu, Oct 17, 2013 at 9:55 AM, Daniil Churikov wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Correct me if I wrong, but when you blindly do update without previous
&gt;&gt;&gt; read,
&gt;&gt;&gt; you create a sibling, which should be resolved on read. In case if you
&gt;&gt;&gt; make
&gt;&gt;&gt; a lot of increments for counter and rarely reads it will lead to siblings
&gt;&gt;&gt; explosion.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; I am not familiar with new counters datatypes, so I am curious.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt;&gt; View this message in context:
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://riak-users.197444.n3.nabble.com/Read-Before-Writes-on-Distributed-Counters-tp4029492p4029498.html
&gt;&gt;&gt; Sent from the Riak Users mailing list archive at Nabble.com.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt; Software Engineer
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; http://basho.com/
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

