---
title: "Re: is it possible to use FQDN instead of IP in riak.conf for \"listener.http.$name” field?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-08-03T03:32:30-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16340"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16308"
author_name: "Richard Jonas"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-08-03T03:32:30-07:00
---


Hi Roman,

my guess is that you can use 0.0.0.0 as IP address which means "listen on
every network device", so if the IP address changes you don't need to
change anything in the config. Please double check this.

Richard

On Wed, Jul 22, 2015 at 7:03 PM, Nick Marino  wrote:

&gt; Hi Roman,
&gt;
&gt; I took a quick look at the riak\\_api code, and unfortunately it doesn't
&gt; look like there's an easy way to do this right now. The code assumes you'll
&gt; enter an IP address, and there's no place where it would attempt to resolve
&gt; a hostname if you passed that in instead.
&gt;
&gt; That said, this does seem like it would be a nice feature to have, and
&gt; probably shouldn't be terribly difficult to implement. If you have a GitHub
&gt; account you could try logging a feature request under the issues section
&gt; for the riak\\_api project (https://github.com/basho/riak\\_api). I can't
&gt; make any guarantees as to whether/when anyone will have time to look into
&gt; it, but hopefully it's something that could be done in the short to medium
&gt; term. If you don't have a GitHub account and would like me to enter this
&gt; for you, send me an email and I can get a request filed.
&gt;
&gt; In the mean time, your best bet is probably to write a script to
&gt; automatically regenerate your config file with the correct IP addresses as
&gt; needed. Not the prettiest solution, but unfortunately that's the best
&gt; suggestion I have for the time being.
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; Nick
&gt;
&gt; On Mon, Jul 20, 2015 at 4:48 PM, ROMAN SHESTAKOV &lt;
&gt; romanshesta...@yahoo.co.uk&gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hello,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; is there any way to specify in riak.conf in field "listener.http.$name”
&gt;&gt; FQDN instead of IP address?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;listener.http.$name This is the IP address and TCP port to which the
&gt;&gt; Riak HTTP interface will bind. {"127.0.0.1",8098}&lt;&lt;&lt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; why is it required to use IP address instead of a host name? In my
&gt;&gt; setting RIAK\\_KV is deployed on dynamic VMs and IP could be changed if the
&gt;&gt; VM is launched on a different hypervisor.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Regards, Roman
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;


-- 
Richard Jonas
Erlang Solutions Hungary Kft

Address:
 Riverpark Office K.32
 Közraktár street 32. 3/1.
 1093 Budapest
 Hungary
Phone/fax:
 +36-1-7000-654
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

