---
title: "Re: 2i Index Durability/Resilience"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-10-08T01:12:27-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12542"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12536"
author_name: "Rune Skou Larsen"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-10-08T01:12:27-07:00
---


Another thing 2i lacks, is the ability to set the R-value. Just like 
when GET'ing on a specific key, there is a tradeoff between consistency 
and performance in choosing the set of vnodes to query.


The 2i query implementation in Riak chooses performance over consistency 
by only querying the minimum set vnodes (1/n), which is the equivalent 
of R=1. In other words, 2i queries have no entropy tolerence. If an 
object is missing from a given vnode (not yet fixed by AE), you will get 
inconcistent results in approximately 1/n of your 2i queries for it. 
Riak chooses the 1/n vnode set somewhat randomly, so you can experience 
that running the 2i query multiple times returns different sets of keys.


There is currently no easy way to change that for high-consistency use 
cases. As an experiment, I have tried modifying Riak's source code, to 
make it query all vnodes, which seemingly works fine. However, Riak will 
then return (up to) n copies of each key, so these need to be deduped by 
the client. Obviously, this alternative approach favours concistency 
over performance, and will be ~3 times as expensive.


Also remember that AAE will fix entropy eventually, so the windows for 
inconsistent 2i queries will be closed by Riak itself after some time. 
You can look at the AAE logs to deduct the level of entropy you are 
running with and guestimate the impact from that on the consistency of 
your 2i queries.


- Rune, Trifork


Den 07-10-2013 23:46, Jon Meredith skrev:

Hi Brady,

The 2I indices are written in the same store as the main objects 
whenever the main object is updated. If a primary node is down, the 
indices will be written to a fallback node. When the fallback sees 
the primary come back online and stops receiving requests for that 
partition it will send the main object back to the primary and that 
will re-index it.


The docs could benefit with a little clarification. Secondary indices 
do benefit from read repair, that is if the main object is spotted as 
being out of date or missing during a get, it is rewritten with the up 
to date information on all nodes. The anti-entropy mechanism that we 
are currently missing is spotting corruption within leveldb itself. 
 For example if part of a the leveldb database storing a vnode is 
corrupted so that the .sst files containing the index entries were 
destroyed there is no mechanism to spot and repair that. We are 
intending to add that for the next major release.


Jon


On Mon, Oct 7, 2013 at 2:39 PM, Brady Wetherington 
&gt; wrote:


 What happens to your 2i indexes if you do a write and one of the
 nodes you're trying to write to is down?

 http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/dev/using/2i/ says:

 \\* When you want or need anti-entropy. Since 2i is just metadata
 on the KV object and the indexes reside on the same node, 2i
 piggybacks off of read-repair.

 But
 http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/ops/running/recovery/repairing-indexes/
 says:

 Riak Secondary indexes (2i) currently have no form of anti-entropy
 (such as read-repair). Furthermore, for performance and load
 balancing reasons, 2i reads from 1 random node. This means that
 when a replica loss has occurred, inconsistent results may be
 returned.

 I am building a solution around 2i - so I just wanted to know if
 there was any way to clarify these points - how resilient are
 these indexes? Under what circumstances will they stop working (or
 return inconsistent results)?

 -B.

 \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
 riak-users mailing list
 riak-users@lists.basho.com 
 http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com




--
Jon Meredith
VP, Engineering
Basho Technologies, Inc.
jmered...@basho.com 



--
sdfd

Best regards / Venlig hilsen

\\*Rune Skou Larsen\\*
Trifork Public A/S
Dyssen 1, 8200 Århus N, Denmark
Phone: +45 3160 2497 Skype: runeskoularsen twitter: @RuneSkouLarsen

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

