---
title: "Re: Why should i choose riak over redis?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-01-22T06:08:10-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13448"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13447"
author_name: "Jon Brisbin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-01-22T06:08:10-08:00
---


I look at it like this: if you can fit your entire database into memory and 
don't mind losing the entire thing when the server goes down or becomes 
unavailable and you like the extra functionality of Redis like hashes, 
counters, and messaging, then go with Redis. If you can't afford to lose the 
data you put into it and you need the availability of more than a single server 
and don't use the simple messaging of Redis, then go with Riak.

That said, the two are not direct competitors. They may have overlapping 
functionality in some areas but they each address fundamentally different 
concerns. 


Thanks!

Jon Brisbin | Reactor Project Lead
http://about.me/jbrisbin | @j\\_brisbin


On Wednesday, January 22, 2014 at 7:57 AM, Suman Kumar wrote:

&gt; i don't wan't secondary indexes and i am choosing bitcask as my backend so 
&gt; the only point which pitches riak above redis is the scaling. correct me if 
&gt; it is wrong.
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; Suman Kumar Dey
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Wed, Jan 22, 2014 at 7:21 PM, Dave King  (mailto:djk...@gmail.com)&gt; wrote:
&gt; &gt; http://db-engines.com/en/system/Redis%3BRiak gets the main point:
&gt; &gt; Redis is for "Applications that can hold all data in memory, and that
&gt; &gt; have high performance requirements."
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; I know we chose Riak with leveldb backend as we couldn't have all data
&gt; &gt; in memory. Also Redis doesn't shard, so it won't scale to the size
&gt; &gt; that Riak will. Also secondary indexes worked really well for us.
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; - Peace
&gt; &gt; Dave
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; On Wed, Jan 22, 2014 at 6:39 AM, Suman Kumar  &gt; (mailto:sumanku...@freshdesk.com)&gt; wrote:
&gt; &gt; &gt; Hi,
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; I would like use riak as a key/value store only so what it differs with
&gt; &gt; &gt; respect to redis and why should i go with riak instead of redis? many 
&gt; &gt; &gt; people
&gt; &gt; &gt; say riak but i don't see any clear difference why riak over redis. Even
&gt; &gt; &gt; redis can do the same stuff can you throw some light on this?
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; Thanks,
&gt; &gt; &gt; Suman Kumar Dey.
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; &gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
&gt; &gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; 
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; 


\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

