---
title: "Re: reversing node removal?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-04-15T09:42:12-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14091"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14090"
author_name: "Luke Bakken"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-04-15T09:42:12-07:00
---


Hi Allen -

Failure / node leave situations should be taken into account during cluster
capacity planning. I've created an issue to more thoroughly explain this in
our documentation:

https://github.com/basho/basho\\_docs/issues/1034

--
Luke Bakken
CSE
lbak...@basho.com


On Tue, Apr 15, 2014 at 9:28 AM, Allen Landsidel
wrote:

&gt; Luke,
&gt;
&gt; I already do use nagios for that, but the disk space was fine before I
&gt; told one of the nodes to leave the cluster. That's my problem -- there was
&gt; not enough free space in the cluster for it to move all that nodes data.
&gt; It accepted the leave and then ran me out of disk space on all the other
&gt; nodes, with no way to abort or recover.
&gt;
&gt; My only option was to add more space to the other nodes (as you said,
&gt; adding new nodes will not work until the leave is done), which is easy
&gt; enough in a virtualized environment but requires downtime. In a bare metal
&gt; environment, it could be catastrophic to the cluster.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On 4/15/2014 12:19, Luke Bakken wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi Allen,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Cluster leave does not check for disk space and in general, Riak is not
&gt;&gt; aware of how much space it has available to itself (most db systems
&gt;&gt; don't monitor disk space I think). I'll send a note to product
&gt;&gt; management about this. We recommend using a monitoring solution (like
&gt;&gt; collectd + graphite) to keep an eye on available disk space.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; Luke Bakken
&gt;&gt; CSE
&gt;&gt; lbak...@basho.com 
&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

