---
title: "RE: Implicit calls to ListKeys?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-02-09T21:15:28-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10069"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg10068"
author_name: "Kevin Burton"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-02-09T21:15:28-08:00
---


I see it more than once on Console and the Debug output window (Visual
Studio). Is there a retry involved or some other reason that it would be
called multiple times?

 

From: riak-users [mailto:riak-users-boun...@lists.basho.com] On Behalf Of
Jeremiah Peschka
Sent: Saturday, February 09, 2013 11:10 PM
To: riak-users
Subject: Re: Implicit calls to ListKeys?

 

ListKeys is only invoked during RiakClient.ListKeys,
RiakAsyncClient.ListKeys, RiakClient.DeleteBucket, and
RiakAsyncClient.DeleteBucket

 

If you're seeing this 2 more times, it could happen because the warning is
issued on both the Trace, Debug, and Console -
https://github.com/DistributedNonsense/CorrugatedIron/blob/master/Corrugated
Iron/RiakClient.cs#L612

 

 




---

Jeremiah Peschka - Founder, Brent Ozar Unlimited

MCITP: SQL Server 2008, MVP

Cloudera Certified Developer for Apache Hadoop

 

On Sat, Feb 9, 2013 at 8:48 PM, Kevin Burton 
wrote:

There must be another. I am only calling ListKeys and DeleteBucket. Each
once, so I expect to see this warning twice. Which I do most of the time.
But occasionally I see this warning 2 or 3 more times. Is it possible that
there is some kind of recursion going on that triggers this call?

 

From: Alexander Moore [mailto:moore.a...@gmail.com] 
Sent: Saturday, February 09, 2013 10:41 PM
To: Kevin Burton
Cc: riak-users@lists.basho.com
Subject: Re: Implicit calls to ListKeys?

 

Hey Kevin,

 

It looks like only RiakClient.ListKeys(), RiakClient.ListKeysStream(), and
RiakClient.DeleteBucket() will give you that warning. 
You shouldn't see it popup from anywhere else in CorrugatedIron. 


Thanks,

Alex

 

 

On Sat, Feb 9, 2013 at 11:19 PM, Kevin Burton 
wrote:

One more question I have some code that specifically lists the keys in a
bucket. I am using Corrugated Iron so I get the warning:

 

\\*\\*\\* [CI] -&gt; ListKeys is an expensive operation and should not be used in
Production scenarios. \\*\\*\\*

 

Then because again this is a test/development environment I am explicitly
removing the bucket. I get this same warning again and from what I
understand this is to be expected.

So I run this code with different data sets and every once and a while I get
two or three of these warnings again. Other than ListKeys and DeleteBucket
what other calls in CorrugatedIron implicitly call ListKeys and would
trigger generating this warning again?

 


\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

 


\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

 

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

