---
title: "Re: Bucket properties not updated"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-10-09T12:38:50-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12573"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12559"
author_name: "Daniel Iwan"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-10-09T12:38:50-07:00
---


Thank for reply.

The thing is that bucket never converges. The allow\\_mult remains false even
several minutes after handoff had finished.
I don't know whether it's because properties get overwritten by defaults
during gossip or it's because message from client(s) never reaches Riak.

This situation is potentially very dangerous for us. As I have no way of
checking if allow\\_mult has incorrect value (Riak client returns true)
it simply means write loss during updates.

Is there a way to debug what's happening or check what's in the ring?

Regards
Daniel Iwan



On 9 October 2013 20:08, Joe Caswell  wrote:

&gt; Daniel,
&gt;
&gt; Custom (i.e. non-default) bucket properties are currently stored in the
&gt; ring. Once you set a bucket property on one node, the updated ring must be
&gt; gossiped to the other nodes. I assume by 'vnode transfer' you mean
&gt; handoff. An ownership handoff would also generate changes to the ring
&gt; which need to be gossiped, and so could slow the propagation of the bucket
&gt; data. If you are setting bucket properties at multiple nodes
&gt; simultaneously, there will be additional steps to resolve the change in
&gt; order for the ring to converge. If all nodes are online and reachable, the
&gt; change should complete very quickly (I would consider 1 second somewhat
&gt; slow).
&gt;
&gt; Joe Caswell
&gt;
&gt; From: Daniel Iwan 
&gt; Date: Wednesday, October 9, 2013 7:39 AM
&gt; To: "riak-users@lists.basho.com" 
&gt; Subject: Bucket properties not updated
&gt;
&gt; Hi
&gt;
&gt; With Java client 1.1.3 and Riak 1.3.1
&gt; I'm doing:
&gt;
&gt; WriteBucket wb =
&gt; iclient.createBucket(BUCKET\\_NAME).nVal(3).allowSiblings(true);
&gt; Bucket b = wb.execute();
&gt;
&gt; \\_logger.fine("Regular bucket: " + bucket + ", allows siblings? " +
&gt; bucket.getAllowSiblings());
&gt;
&gt; DomainBucketBuilder&lt; MyObjectInRiak &gt; builder =
&gt; DomainBucket.builder(bucket, MyObjectInRiak.class);
&gt;
&gt; builder.r(RIAK\\_TX\\_R\\_VALUE);
&gt; builder.w(RIAK\\_TX\\_W\\_VALUE);
&gt; builder.rw(RIAK\\_TX\\_RW\\_VALUE);
&gt; builder.returnDeletedVClock(true);
&gt; builder.returnBody(true);
&gt; builder.basicQuorum(false);
&gt;
&gt; with custom resolver, mutator and converter.
&gt; This code runs on 3 servers at the same time during a test and I know Riak
&gt; db is empty
&gt; and bucket BUCKET\\_NAME does not exist.
&gt;
&gt; log shows that all 3 servers see allowSibbling set to true, but
&gt; occasionally test fails and curl shows allow\\_multi is false on that bucket!
&gt;
&gt; Is there any delay, race condition etc in Riak, or client library. that
&gt; would explain why that bucket property is not set?
&gt; During a test vnode transfer occurs but that should not matter I guess?
&gt;
&gt; Regards
&gt; Daniel
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_ riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

