---
title: "Re: riak-users Digest, Vol 66, Issue 12"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-01-14T16:06:00-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15495"
author_name: "Hiren Shah"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-01-14T16:06:00-08:00
---


http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
unsubscribe

On Wed, Jan 14, 2015 at 12:00 PM, 
wrote:

&gt; Send riak-users mailing list submissions to
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt; To subscribe or unsubscribe via the World Wide Web, visit
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; or, via email, send a message with subject or body 'help' to
&gt; riak-users-requ...@lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt; You can reach the person managing the list at
&gt; riak-users-ow...@lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt; When replying, please edit your Subject line so it is more specific
&gt; than "Re: Contents of riak-users digest..."
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Today's Topics:
&gt;
&gt; 1. Re: How to find which nodes host a particular bucket/key?
&gt; (Charlie Voiselle)
&gt; 2. Re: RIAK-CS Unable to create bucket using s3cmd -
&gt; AccessDenied (Sellmy Bassamp)
&gt; 3. Disruptor like behaviour (xu xiut)
&gt; 4. Riak control on cluster (Bruno Ren? Santos)
&gt; 5. Re: Riak control on cluster (Chris Meiklejohn)
&gt; 6. Re: Disruptor like behaviour (Sean Cribbs)
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; ----------------------------------------------------------------------
&gt;
&gt; Message: 1
&gt; Date: Tue, 13 Jan 2015 12:14:49 -0500
&gt; From: Charlie Voiselle 
&gt; To: Jay Doane 
&gt; Cc: riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; Subject: Re: How to find which nodes host a particular bucket/key?
&gt; Message-ID: 
&gt; Content-Type: text/plain; charset="us-ascii"
&gt;
&gt; You can use the following Erlang snippet in `riak attach`:
&gt;
&gt; N=3,
&gt; {ok,Ring} = riak\\_core\\_ring\\_manager:get\\_my\\_ring(),
&gt; DocIdx = riak\\_core\\_util:chash\\_key({&lt;&lt;"my\\_bucket"&gt;&gt;, &lt;&lt;"my\\_key"&gt;&gt;}),
&gt; &lt;&gt; = DocIdx,
&gt; Preflist = riak\\_core\\_ring:preflist(DocIdx, Ring),
&gt; {Targets, Fallbacks} = lists:split(N, Preflist),
&gt; Targets.
&gt;
&gt; Verify that `N` matches your clusters N-val. Change `my\\_bucket` and
&gt; `my\\_key` as appropriate. If all of your nodes are up and healthy, this
&gt; will give you the primaries in the `Targets` variable and the fallback
&gt; partitions in order of preference in `Fallbacks`.
&gt;
&gt; Regards,
&gt; Charlie Voiselle
&gt; Basho Client Services
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; &gt; On Jan 12, 2015, at 4:28 PM, Jay Doane  wrote:
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Can anyone suggest how to determine the nodes on which a particular
&gt; bucket/key are hosted in a cluster?
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Thanks,
&gt; &gt; Jay
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt; -------------- next part --------------
&gt; An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
&gt; URL: &lt;
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/pipermail/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com/attachments/20150113/713750f3/attachment-0001.html
&gt; &gt;
&gt;
&gt; ------------------------------
&gt;
&gt; Message: 2
&gt; Date: Tue, 13 Jan 2015 18:49:07 +0000 (UTC)
&gt; From: Sellmy Bassamp 
&gt; To: Shunichi Shinohara 
&gt; Cc: "riak-users@lists.basho.com" 
&gt; Subject: Re: RIAK-CS Unable to create bucket using s3cmd -
&gt; AccessDenied
&gt; Message-ID:
&gt; &lt;
&gt; 1100374542.333474.1421174947053.javamail.ya...@jws100193.mail.ne1.yahoo.com
&gt; &gt;
&gt;
&gt; Content-Type: text/plain; charset="utf-8"
&gt;
&gt; Thank-you, that corrected the issue.
&gt;
&gt; On Monday, January 12, 2015 9:00 PM, Shunichi Shinohara &lt;
&gt; sh...@basho.com&gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Hi Sellmy,
&gt;
&gt; New versions of s3cmd uses AWS v4 authentication [1] but Riak CS
&gt; does not support it yet [2].
&gt; Tentatively, please add following one line to your .s3cfg file:
&gt; signature\\_v2 = True
&gt;
&gt; [1] https://github.com/s3tools/s3cmd/issues/402
&gt; [2] https://github.com/basho/riak\\_cs/issues/897
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; Shino
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; -------------- next part --------------
&gt; An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
&gt; URL: &lt;
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/pipermail/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com/attachments/20150113/3850260a/attachment-0001.html
&gt; &gt;
&gt;
&gt; ------------------------------
&gt;
&gt; Message: 3
&gt; Date: Wed, 14 Jan 2015 09:25:25 -0500
&gt; From: xu xiut 
&gt; To: riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; Subject: Disruptor like behaviour
&gt; Message-ID:
&gt;  ih...@mail.gmail.com&gt;
&gt; Content-Type: text/plain; charset="utf-8"
&gt;
&gt; Is it possible to mimic most or all of Disruptor's behaviour with Riak?
&gt;
&gt; https://github.com/LMAX-Exchange/disruptor/wiki/Introduction
&gt; -------------- next part --------------
&gt; An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
&gt; URL: &lt;
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/pipermail/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com/attachments/20150114/8fb93117/attachment-0001.html
&gt; &gt;
&gt;
&gt; ------------------------------
&gt;
&gt; Message: 4
&gt; Date: Wed, 14 Jan 2015 15:00:03 +0000
&gt; From: Bruno Ren? Santos 
&gt; To: 
&gt; Subject: Riak control on cluster
&gt; Message-ID: &lt;54b68473.3050...@telecom.pt&gt;
&gt; Content-Type: text/plain; charset="utf-8"; format=flowed
&gt;
&gt; Hi,
&gt;
&gt; I have a cluster of 6 machines and wanted to check them using riak
&gt; control. I tried to enabled it on node-01 (riak.conf =&gt; riak\\_control =
&gt; on), restart riak on that node. But nothing appears on port 8069...
&gt; where else can i configure these parameters? Or check what is wrong?
&gt;
&gt; Thanx
&gt; Bruno
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; ------------------------------
&gt;
&gt; Message: 5
&gt; Date: Wed, 14 Jan 2015 16:13:50 +0100
&gt; From: Chris Meiklejohn 
&gt; To: Bruno Ren? Santos 
&gt; Cc: riak-users 
&gt; Subject: Re: Riak control on cluster
&gt; Message-ID:
&gt; &lt;
&gt; cajbra\\_nv-spdd6nv4bvgrj54cleauaeleyipuixqo3pygru...@mail.gmail.com&gt;
&gt; Content-Type: text/plain; charset=UTF-8
&gt;
&gt; On Wed, Jan 14, 2015 at 4:00 PM, Bruno Ren? Santos
&gt;  wrote:
&gt; &gt; Hi,
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; I have a cluster of 6 machines and wanted to check them using riak
&gt; control.
&gt; &gt; I tried to enabled it on node-01 (riak.conf =&gt; riak\\_control = on),
&gt; restart
&gt; &gt; riak on that node. But nothing appears on port 8069... where else can i
&gt; &gt; configure these parameters? Or check what is wrong?
&gt;
&gt; Riak Control, when SSL is enabled, is reachable at '/admin', not at the
&gt; root.
&gt;
&gt; In addition, is SSL enabled and configured? If not, Riak Control will run
&gt; on
&gt; the default HTTP port, which is 8098.
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; - Chris
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; ------------------------------
&gt;
&gt; Message: 6
&gt; Date: Wed, 14 Jan 2015 09:32:43 -0600
&gt; From: Sean Cribbs 
&gt; To: xu xiut 
&gt; Cc: riak-users 
&gt; Subject: Re: Disruptor like behaviour
&gt; Message-ID:
&gt;  e2d47dwnk+fkfkbjvnt1wnwu8nequpugiaqvpshc3w...@mail.gmail.com&gt;
&gt; Content-Type: text/plain; charset="utf-8"
&gt;
&gt; I think this is a case of asking the wrong question. LMAX Disruptor is a
&gt; single-process abstraction, similar to an event loop / reactor. Erlang
&gt; already has this concept under the covers (use +K on the command-line to
&gt; turn on kernel-polling).
&gt;
&gt; Riak (the product) is a distributed key-value store that runs on multiple
&gt; nodes (OS processes). Riak Core is the framework upon which
&gt; Riak-the-product is built, and provides cluster membership, consistent
&gt; hashing, the virtual-node abstraction, handoff and various other utilities.
&gt; None of these things talk about how work is distributed to multiple
&gt; consumers in a single process. The two have very little in common.
&gt;
&gt; On Wed, Jan 14, 2015 at 8:25 AM, xu xiut  wrote:
&gt;
&gt; &gt; Is it possible to mimic most or all of Disruptor's behaviour with Riak?
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; https://github.com/LMAX-Exchange/disruptor/wiki/Introduction
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt; Sr. Software Engineer
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; http://basho.com/
&gt; -------------- next part --------------
&gt; An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
&gt; URL: &lt;
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/pipermail/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com/attachments/20150114/d56a8152/attachment-0001.html
&gt; &gt;
&gt;
&gt; ------------------------------
&gt;
&gt; Subject: Digest Footer
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; ------------------------------
&gt;
&gt; End of riak-users Digest, Vol 66, Issue 12
&gt; \\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

