---
title: "RE: Can't create a user"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-06-30T23:40:15-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11359"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg11357"
author_name: "Guy Morton"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-06-30T23:40:15-07:00
---


Is there anyone you know in Melbourne Australia who might be able to help us?

I'm sure all my issues are config related, and maybe exacerbated by the fact 
that I am setting up a single node and the docs seem often to assume you have 
more than one? So it gets confusing how it should be configured, just to get 
started with a single node.

--
Guy Morton
Web Development Manager
Brüel & Kjær EMS

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
From: Christopher Meiklejohn [cmeiklej...@basho.com]
Sent: Monday, 1 July 2013 4:17 PM
To: Guy Morton
Cc: riak-users@lists.basho.com
Subject: Re: Can't create a user

Eek, that's no good. It appears that we should have better error handling for 
this.

My first thought is that the proxy is not configured for your Riak CS hostname 
in the riak-cs-control configuration file. Can you verify that the app.config 
contains the same proxy configuration as the app.config for your Riak CS 
installation?

http://docs.basho.com/riakcs/latest/references/appendices/RiakCS-Control/

- Chris

--
Christopher Meiklejohn
Software Engineer
Basho Technologies, Inc.



On Monday, July 1, 2013 at 2:11 AM, Guy Morton wrote:

&gt; I am going to s3.myriakcs.com:8000/#/users/new 
&gt; (http://s3.myriakcs.com:8000/#/users/new) and trying to create a user. I get 
&gt; an error and this appears in /var/log/riak-cs-control/error.log:
&gt;
&gt; 2013-06-30 23:01:35.201 [error] &lt;0.10941.0&gt; webmachine error: path="/users"
&gt; {"create\\_path not a 
&gt; string",{error,{error,badarg,[{erlang,binary\\_to\\_list,[undefined],[]},{riak\\_cs\\_control\\_wm\\_users,extract\\_key\\_id,1,[{file,"src/riak\\_cs\\_control\\_wm\\_users.erl"},{line,60}]},{riak\\_cs\\_control\\_wm\\_users,create\\_path,2,[{file,"src/riak\\_cs\\_control\\_wm\\_users.erl"},{line,68}]},{webmachine\\_resource,resource\\_call,3,[{file,"src/webmachine\\_resource.erl"},{line,183}]},{webmachine\\_resource,do,3,[{file,"src/webmachine\\_resource.erl"},{line,141}]},{webmachine\\_decision\\_core,resource\\_call,1,[{file,"src/webmachine\\_decision\\_core.erl"},{line,48}]},{webmachine\\_decision\\_core,decision,1,[{file,"src/webmachine\\_decision\\_core.erl"},{line,440}]},{webmachine\\_decision\\_core,handle\\_request,2,[{file,"src/webmachine\\_decision\\_core.erl"},{line,33}]}]}}}
&gt;
&gt; Any ideas?
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Guy Morton
&gt; Web Development Manager
&gt; Brüel & Kjær EMS
&gt; This e-mail is confidential and may be read, copied and used only by the 
&gt; intended recipient. If you have received it in error, please contact the 
&gt; sender immediately by return e-mail. Please then delete the e-mail and do not 
&gt; disclose its contents to any other person.
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com




This e-mail is confidential and may be read, copied and used only by the 
intended recipient. If you have received it in error, please contact the sender 
immediately by return e-mail. Please then delete the e-mail and do not disclose 
its contents to any other person.

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

