---
title: "Re: How to access riak control panel?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-02-12T10:21:40-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15701"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15698"
author_name: "Christopher Meiklejohn"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-02-12T10:21:40-08:00
---


Hi there,

Can you attempt to load that address in your browser?

Thanks,
Chris

&gt; On Feb 12, 2015, at 9:37 AM, SeanProtain  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; Hi Christopher,
&gt; 
&gt; After do it again with your command, I still can not connect to the admin 
&gt; panel of riak control.
&gt; please see the attached screeshot. Should I visit the admin panel by type 
&gt; http://localhost:10018/admin on the browser? Thank you!
&gt; 
&gt; From: barco...@hotmail.com
&gt; To: cmeiklej...@basho.com
&gt; CC: riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; Subject: RE: How to access riak control panel?
&gt; Date: Thu, 12 Feb 2015 22:31:57 +0800
&gt; 
&gt; Hi Christopher,
&gt; 
&gt; After do it again with your command, I still can not connect to the admin 
&gt; panel of riak control.
&gt; please see the attached screeshot. Thank you!
&gt; 
&gt; &gt; Subject: Re: How to access riak control panel?
&gt; &gt; From: cmeiklej...@basho.com
&gt; &gt; Date: Tue, 10 Feb 2015 21:11:09 -0500
&gt; &gt; CC: riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; To: barco...@hotmail.com
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; On Feb 10, 2015, at 9:08 PM, SeanProtain  wrote:
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; Hi Christopher,
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; Thank you!
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; Then how should I pull the right code for tag riak-2.0.4? Could you 
&gt; &gt; &gt; please show me the concrete command? Thank you!
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; From a clean clone, just run the following:
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; $ git checkout riak-2.0.4
&gt; &gt; $ make devrel
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; - Chris
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; Christopher Meiklejohn
&gt; &gt; Senior Software Engineer
&gt; &gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; &gt; cmeiklej...@basho.com
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

Christopher Meiklejohn
Senior Software Engineer
Basho Technologies, Inc.
cmeiklej...@basho.com

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

