---
title: "Re: Question on \"link walking: Deprecation Notice\""
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-05-13T05:28:38-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14213"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14212"
author_name: "Alexander Grytsenko"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-05-13T05:28:38-07:00
---


BTW - i'm using python riak-python-client (v2.0.3) and it allows you to use
link walking and chaining but returns back a bucket/key/tag tuple that
allows to fetch a needed object via the secondary request.

Will this also be deprecated?



On Tue, May 13, 2014 at 3:19 PM, Alexander Grytsenko &lt;
alexander.grytse...@dev-pro.net&gt; wrote:

&gt;
&gt; Hi all,
&gt;
&gt; I'm a bit confused of this deprecation notice that is on the official
&gt; docs.basho page that is related to a link walking explanation. See here:
&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riak/2.0.0beta1/dev/using/link-walking/
&gt;
&gt; Basically, It says that starting from v2.0 the Link Walking feature is
&gt; marked as deprecated and it is going to be removed.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; As I understand link walking allows you to "fetch a related object" by an
&gt; url like:
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; curl -v http://127.0.0.1:8091/riak/people/timoreilly/people,friend,1
&gt; &gt;...
&gt;
&gt; &lt; {'name': 'dave'} # another object with a key=dave who appears to be a 
&gt; friend of tim
&gt;
&gt; Clearly this functionality will be removed.
&gt;
&gt; But does it mean the 'Links' (as key's metadata) will also be deprecated
&gt; and removed?
&gt; Or will I be able to store the Links into object's medatada in v2.0 or 3.0
&gt; or whatever..?
&gt; Or is it going to be possible to travel over links via map/reduce in the
&gt; future versions?
&gt;
&gt; Should I think now about storing additional info somewhere inside my
&gt; object to keep simple relations in the future?
&gt; (and convert all my current links to object's inner data)
&gt;
&gt; Or the deprecation warning above is related only to "Link Walking" (on the
&gt; server side with getting the object back), but not to the "Links" itself?
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Thanks for keeping this thread,
&gt; alex
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

