---
title: "Riak 2.0.0 RC1"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-07-21T14:36:13-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14519"
author_name: "Jared Morrow"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-07-21T14:36:13-07:00
---


Riak-Users,

Everyone at Basho is extremely happy to announce the public availability of
Riak 2.0.0 RC. As a release candidate, we do not recommend using it in
production, but it should be considered feature and API complete for Riak
2.0 final. We reserve the right to make changes for any data-loss or severe
performance issues found post-RC, but these will not affect the API.

This is our most ambitious release, with major new features throughout the
product. With that in mind, please take plenty of time to read through the
Release Notes. There are some important considerations regarding upgrades,
known issues, and packaging. The Release Notes are still a work-in-progress
and will be continually updated as we march towards 2.0 final. We have made
a lot of progress on our docs site  for 2.0, but
still have work to do before final release. We appreciate your patience.

 -

 \\*Release Notes\\*: https://github.com/basho/riak/blob/2.0/RELEASE-NOTES.md
 -

 \\*Downloads\\*: http://docs.basho.com/riak/2.0.0/downloads/
 Note: There will be minor tweaks to the download site to show the labels
 for SuSE Enterprise Linux and Ubuntu 14.04 packages
 -

 \\*APT/YUM Repos\\* (see release-notes re: this change):
 https://packagecloud.io/basho/riak/install Note: If you are downloading
 the files directly, use our docs site. For apt/yum repo install, use
 packagecloud.

Thanks to everyone in our community,
-Team Basho
​
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

