---
title: "Re: Tune Riak for fast inserts - populate DB"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-02-13T00:15:35-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10109"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg10108"
author_name: "Russell Brown"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-02-13T00:15:35-08:00
---



On 13 Feb 2013, at 08:07, Bogdan Flueras  wrote:

&gt; How to set the bucket to last write? Is it in the builder?

Something like:

 Bucket b = client.createBucket("my\\_bucket").lastWriteWins(true);

Also, after you've created the bucket, do you use it from all threads? You 
don't re-fetch the bucket per-insert operation, do you?

But the "withoutFecth()" option is probably going to be the biggest 
performance increase, and safe if you are only doing inserts.

Cheers

Russell

&gt; I'll have a look..
&gt; Yes, I use more threads and the bucket is configured to spread the load 
&gt; across all nodes.
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks, I'll have a deeper look into the API and let you know about my 
&gt; results.
&gt; 
&gt; ing. Bogdan Flueras
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Wed, Feb 13, 2013 at 10:02 AM, Russell Brown  wrote:
&gt; Hi,
&gt; 
&gt; On 13 Feb 2013, at 07:37, Bogdan Flueras  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; &gt; Hello all,
&gt; &gt; I've got a 5 node cluster with Riak 1.2.1, all machines are multicore,
&gt; &gt; with min 4GB RAM.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; I want to insert something like 50 million records in Riak with the java 
&gt; &gt; client (Protobuf used) with default settings. I've tried also with HTTP 
&gt; &gt; protocol and set w = 1 but got some problems.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; However the process is very slow: it doesn't write more than 6GB/ hour or 
&gt; &gt; aprox. 280 KB/second.
&gt; &gt; To have all my data filled in, it would take aprox 2 days !!
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; What can I do to have the data filled into Riak ASAP?
&gt; &gt; How should I configure the cluster ? (vm.args/ app.config) I don't care so 
&gt; &gt; much about consistency at this point.
&gt; 
&gt; If you are certain to be only inserting new data setting your bucket(s) to 
&gt; last write wins will speed things up. Also, are you using multiple threads 
&gt; for the Java client insert? Spreading the load across all five nodes? Are you 
&gt; using the "withoutFetch()" option on the java client?
&gt; 
&gt; Cheers
&gt; 
&gt; Russell
&gt; 
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Thank you,
&gt; &gt; ing. Bogdan Flueras
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; 


\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

