---
title: "Re: Counters inside Maps"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-08-19T15:28:47-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14748"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14746"
author_name: "Luc Perkins"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-08-19T15:28:47-07:00
---


Alex,

Do you mean a map as in a Python dict or as in a Riak map? If you want to
create \\*footballers\\* as a Riak map, skip to the \\*Maps\\* section in this doc
. That
provides a full tutorial for dealing with other Data Types, such as
counters, within maps, and has Python code samples.

If you're storing Python dicts as JSON in Riak, as in your example, you
will have to GET the map from Riak and manipulate it client side. So if you
wanted to add a \\*goals\\_i\\* counter that starts at 0, you'd have to do
something like this:

\\*obj = bucket.get('lionelmessi')\\*
\\*obj.data['goals\\_i'] = 0\\*
\\*obj.store()\\*

To increment the counter, you could do so in a function like this:

\\*def increment(bucket, key, n):\\*
\\* obj = bucket.get(key)\\*
\\* obj['goals\\_i'] = obj['goals\\_i'] + n\\*
\\* obj.store()\\*

That's of course a very rough example. But you can probably see from this
example that using Riak maps can be a very nice option if you're using a
data model that fits. Here's an example of storing your \\*lionelmessi\\* object
as a Riak map:

\\*riak-admin bucket-type create maps '{"props":{"datatype":"map"}}'\\*
\\*riak-admin bucket-type activate maps\\*

\\*from riak.datatypes import Map\\*

\\*bucket = client.bucket\\_type('maps').bucket('footballers')\\*
\\*messi\\_map = Map(bucket, 'lionelmessi')\\*
\\*messi\\_map.registers['name\\_s'].assign('Messi')\\*
\\*messi\\_map.registers['team\\_s'].assign('Barcelona')\\*
\\*messi\\_map.registers['number\\_i'].assign(str(10))\\*
\\*messi\\_map.counters['goals\\_i'].increment()\\*
\\*messi\\_map.store()\\*

Luc


On Tue, Aug 19, 2014 at 2:59 PM, Alex De la rosa 
wrote:

&gt; Imagine I have a Riak object "footballer" with some static fields: name,
&gt; team, number. I store them like this now:
&gt;
&gt; 1: CREATE INDEX FOR RIAK SEARCH
&gt; curl -XPUT "http://148.251.140.229:8098/search/index/ix\\_footballers"
&gt;
&gt; 2: CREATE BUCKET TYPE
&gt; riak-admin bucket-type create tp\\_footballers
&gt; '{"props":{"allow\\_mult":false,"search\\_index":"ix\\_footballers"}}'
&gt; riak-admin bucket-type activate tp\\_footballers
&gt;
&gt; 3: INSERT A PLAYER
&gt; bucket = client.bucket\\_type('tp\\_footballers').bucket('footballers')
&gt; key = bucket.new('lionelmessi', data={'name\\_s':'Messi',
&gt; 'team\\_s':'Barcelona', 'number\\_i':10}, content\\_type='application/json')
&gt; key.store()
&gt;
&gt; 4: SEARCH FOR BARCELONA PLAYERS
&gt; r = client.fulltext\\_search('ix\\_footballers', 'team\\_s:Barcelona')
&gt;
&gt; So far so good :) BUT... what if I want to have a field "goals\\_i" that is
&gt; a counter that will be incremented each match day with the number of goals
&gt; he scored? What is the syntax/steps to do to set up "footballers" as a MAP
&gt; and then put a COUNTER inside? I know is possible as I read it in some data
&gt; dump some Basho employee passed me some time ago, but I can't manage to see
&gt; how to do it now.
&gt;
&gt; Thanks!
&gt; Alex
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

