---
title: "Re: [ANN] Riak 1.3 Released"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-02-21T06:28:23-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10169"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg10168"
author_name: "Dmitry Demeshchuk"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-02-21T06:28:23-08:00
---


HELL YEAH


On Thu, Feb 21, 2013 at 6:24 PM, Tom Santero  wrote:

&gt; Here Ye! Here Ye!
&gt;
&gt; The Basho Engineering team is thrilled to announced that Riak 1.3 is
&gt; official and ready for your production systems. Without further adieu:
&gt;
&gt; - Complete release notes:
&gt; https://github.com/basho/riak/blob/1.3/RELEASE-NOTES.md
&gt; - 1.3 downloads and documentation:
&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riak/1.3.0/downloads/
&gt;
&gt; If you've been following the commits or have read the release notes for
&gt; the first four RCs, you know this release is well worth the wait. Big
&gt; ticket features and fixes include Active Anti Entropy (AAE), MapReduce
&gt; stability and speed improvements, a refacing for Riak Control, LevelDB saw
&gt; another round of significant improvements, and much more. All told, we
&gt; fixed/resolved/merged more than 170 issues and PRs.
&gt;
&gt; In addition to the release notes, we've got a blog post up on the Basho
&gt; Blog [1] with more details about 1.3. We're also doing a Riak 1.3 Webcast
&gt; on March 7th [2] for anyone who is interested in getting a more in-depth
&gt; look at the release.
&gt;
&gt; 1.3 took a a little longer to get out the door than was planned, but it's
&gt; the most-advanced, battle-tested Riak we've ever released and we're proud
&gt; to ship it to you. Thanks for being a supportive and active community. Your
&gt; production usage, suggestions, comments, criticisms, code contributions,
&gt; and bug fixes made this possible.
&gt;
&gt; Lastly, if you want to hear all about the future of Riak and hack
&gt; alongside fellow Riak Community members for a few days, come to RICON |
&gt; EAST this May in NYC [3].
&gt;
&gt; Let us know if you have any questions about the release and thanks for
&gt; being a part of Riak.
&gt;
&gt; Now, onto 1.4...
&gt;
&gt; The Basho Team
&gt; twitter.com/basho
&gt;
&gt; [1] http://basho.com/introducing-riak-1-3/ 
&gt; 
&gt;
&gt; [2] http://info.basho.com/IntroToRiakMarch7.html 
&gt; 
&gt;
&gt; [3] http://ricon.io/east.html
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;


-- 
Best regards,
Dmitry Demeshchuk
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

