---
title: "Re: Siblings on first write to a key"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2017-04-18T07:12:57-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg18163"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg18159"
author_name: "Daniel Abrahamsson"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2017-04-18T07:12:57-07:00
---


Hi Douglas,

That seems to be a good candidate for an explanation. Thank you very
much for the explanation and link. I'll dig into it.

As promised, I looked into whether we in the second case I mentioned
also had "unrecognized message" in the logs, and we indeed had.




On Tue, Apr 18, 2017 at 2:55 PM, Douglas Rohrer  wrote:
&gt; This sounds like an issue our Riak CS team ran into quite a while ago, which 
&gt; involved “slow nodes” and coordination retry. Take a look at 
&gt; https://github.com/basho/riak\\_kv/issues/1188 and see if it makes sense to 
&gt; you, but it certainly sounds like what’s happening.
&gt;
&gt; The basic flow of the issue comes when one node in the preflist is down, and 
&gt; you write to a node \\_not in the preflist\\_, at which point the following 
&gt; happens (better formatted in the issue above, btw):
&gt;
&gt; client node-A node-R node-S
&gt; ---(Put)--&gt;
&gt; Compute PL
&gt; = P, Q and R
&gt; Redirect to R ---&gt; [frozen]
&gt; |
&gt; | 3 sec timeout
&gt; V
&gt; Compute new PL excluding R
&gt; = P, Q and S
&gt; Redirect to S --------------------&gt; Compute PL without
&gt; | any knowlege about R (at 
&gt; this point)
&gt; | = P, Q and R
&gt; | Redirect to R ---+
&gt; | | |
&gt; | [what happnes?] &lt;-|-----------------+
&gt; | | 3 sec timeout
&gt; | V
&gt; | Compute new PL excluding R
&gt; | = P, Q and S
&gt; | I'm coordinator this time
&gt; | Execute put
&gt; V 3 sec timeout
&gt; Compute new PL again
&gt; [continues]
&gt;
&gt; So, it’s possible for a slow/down node (node R in this case) to eventually 
&gt; cause two \\_other nodes\\_ to each write a sibling, even on a new key. In fact, 
&gt; depending on the number of nodes in the system and your luck, you could end 
&gt; up writing more than one sibling on a fresh write in this case. Given your 
&gt; comment about a network issue potentially being a factor, and the 3-second 
&gt; timing you noted (the default for the failure timeout), this increases the 
&gt; likelihood that this was, in fact, the issue.
&gt;
&gt; A fix for this issue has been worked on and tested, but is not yet 
&gt; incorporated into a version of Riak for distribution. You can, however, 
&gt; disable the coordinator retry logic as noted in the issue I referenced above, 
&gt; or increase the timeout if your cluster is running slowly in general by 
&gt; setting `riak\\_kv`, `put\\_coordinator\\_failure\\_timeout` in your 
&gt; `advanced.config` file (see 
&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riak/kv/2.2.3/configuring/reference/#advanced-configuration
&gt; for the general format of the advanced.config if you’re not familiar).
&gt;
&gt; Hope this helps.
&gt;
&gt; Doug Rohrer
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On 4/18/17, 8:28 AM, "riak-users on behalf of Daniel Abrahamsson" 
&gt;  wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Hi Magnus,
&gt;
&gt; This cluster has been running in production for a few months. Key
&gt; generation is based on flake (https://github.com/boundary/flake); we
&gt; have never experienced a collision in the 3+ years we have been using
&gt; it heavily in production. However, I will look into that possibility
&gt; as well.
&gt;
&gt; I just noticed that one of the Riak nodes logged this at the time:
&gt;
&gt; 2017-04-13 17:42:40.567 [error]
&gt; &lt;0.3624.28&gt;@riak\\_api\\_pb\\_server:handle\\_info:331 Unrecognized message
&gt; 
&gt; {30320806,{ok,{r\\_object,&lt;&lt;"session"&gt;&gt;,&lt;&lt;".12011742tWzDvu8mk5WAdfYihfV\\_T3DcnJ5VDyXC0c"&gt;&gt;,[{r\\_content,{dict,3,16,16,8,80,48,{[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[]},{{[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[[&lt;&lt;"X-Riak-VTag"&gt;&gt;,53,114,86,115,108,71,120,112,73,55,108,118,114,100,105,114,107,104,50,66,105,119]],[[&lt;&lt;"index"&gt;&gt;]],[],[[&lt;&lt;"X-Riak-Last-Modified"&gt;&gt;|{1492,105357,453143}]],[],[]}}},&lt;&lt;...
&gt; (actual value removed).
&gt;
&gt; I also have another example (from the same cluster) where there is a
&gt; \\*single\\* writer to a key, but after a few writes/updates, it also got
&gt; a sibling error. Also at that time, the write+read took significantly
&gt; longer than normal. I'll check if we had any "unrecognized messages"
&gt; in the Riak logs at that time as well.
&gt;
&gt; To answer your second question, we are talking to the riak cluster
&gt; over protocol buffers, using the official Erlang client.
&gt;
&gt; //Daniel
&gt;
&gt; On Tue, Apr 18, 2017 at 1:51 PM, Magnus Kessler  
&gt; wrote:
&gt; &gt; On 18 April 2017 at 08:20, Daniel Abrahamsson  wrote:
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; I've run into a case where I got a sbiling error/response on the first
&gt; &gt;&gt; ever write to a key. I would like to understand how this could happen.
&gt; &gt;&gt; Normally when you get siblings, it is because you have written a value
&gt; &gt;&gt; with an out-of-date vclock. But since this is the first write, there
&gt; &gt;&gt; is no vclock. Could someone shed some light on this for me?
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; It is worth to mention that the it took 3 seconds for Riak to deliver
&gt; &gt;&gt; the response, so it is possible there was some kind of network issue
&gt; &gt;&gt; at the time.
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; Here are some details about my setup:
&gt; &gt;&gt; Number of nodes: 8.
&gt; &gt;&gt; n\\_val: 5
&gt; &gt;&gt; write options: pw: 3 (quorum), return\\_body
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; Regards,
&gt; &gt;&gt; Daniel Abrahamsson
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Hi Daniel,
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Please let me know if all nodes in this cluster were set up completely
&gt; &gt; fresh, with empty backend directories, or if any of them had been used
&gt; &gt; before for a Riak installation. If the latter is the case, it may be 
&gt; that
&gt; &gt; the key in question had already been used once before. Cluster nodes 
&gt; pick up
&gt; &gt; data from pre-existing backends.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; How do you access the key for read and write operations?
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Kind Regards,
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Magnus
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Magnus Kessler
&gt; &gt; Client Services Engineer
&gt; &gt; Basho Technologies Limited
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Registered Office - 8 Lincoln’s Inn Fields London WC2A 3BP Reg 07970431
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

