---
title: "Re: Performance slows down with write heavy use"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-04-15T11:18:13-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14095"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14084"
author_name: "Matthew MacClary"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-04-15T11:18:13-07:00
---


Thanks for the suggestions! We are working on implementing them now.

Is there a bug or errata related to riak-kv or bitcask c. 1.4.1 that would
cause this type of performance change over 30 minutes?

-Matt


On Mon, Apr 14, 2014 at 3:26 PM, Luke Bakken  wrote:

&gt; Hi Matthew -
&gt;
&gt; Some suggestions:
&gt;
&gt; \\* Upgrade to Riak 1.4.8
&gt;
&gt; \\* Test with a ring size of 64
&gt;
&gt; \\* Use staggered merge windows in your cluster (
&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/ops/advanced/backends/bitcask/)
&gt;
&gt; \\* Since you're on dedicated hardware RAID, use the noop scheduler for
&gt; your Riak data volumes:
&gt;
&gt; cat /sys/block/sd\\*/queue/scheduler
&gt; noop anticipatory deadline [cfq]
&gt;
&gt; \\* Increase +zdbbl in /etc/riak/vm.args to 96000
&gt;
&gt; Thanks
&gt; --
&gt; Luke Bakken
&gt; CSE
&gt; lbak...@basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Mon, Apr 14, 2014 at 2:33 PM, Matthew MacClary &lt;
&gt; maccl...@lifetime.oregonstate.edu&gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; I have a persistent issue I am trying to diagnose. In our use of Riak we
&gt;&gt; have multiple data creators writing into a 7 node cluster. The value size
&gt;&gt; is a bit large at around 2MB. The behavior I am seeing is that if I delete
&gt;&gt; all data out of bitcask, then test performance I get fast writes. As I keep
&gt;&gt; doing the same work of writing to the cluster, then the Riak write times
&gt;&gt; will start tailing off and getting really bad.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Initial write times seen by my application: 0.5 seconds for 100MB worth
&gt;&gt; of values (~200MB/s)
&gt;&gt; Subsequent write times: 11 seconds for 100MB worth of values (~9MB/s)
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; This slow down can happen over roughly 20-40 minutes of writing or about
&gt;&gt; 200GB worth of key/value pairs written.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I can reset the cluster to get fast performance again by stopping Riak
&gt;&gt; and deleting the bitcask directories, then starting Riak again. This step
&gt;&gt; is not feasible for production, but during testing at least the write speed
&gt;&gt; goes up by 20x.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Watching iostat I see that every few seconds the disk io jumps to ~11%.
&gt;&gt; It doesn't seem that highly loaded from my cursory look. Watching top I see
&gt;&gt; that beam.smp runs at around 100 for CPU% or less when heavily loaded. I am
&gt;&gt; not sure how to tell what it is doing though :-)
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks for any suggestions!!
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; -Matt
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; ================
&gt;&gt; System Description
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; avg value size = 2MB
&gt;&gt; Riak version = 1.4.1
&gt;&gt; n\\_val = 2
&gt;&gt; client threads total = 105
&gt;&gt; backend = bitcask
&gt;&gt; ring\\_creation\\_size = 128
&gt;&gt; node count = 7
&gt;&gt; node OS = RHEL 6.2
&gt;&gt; server RAM = 128GB
&gt;&gt; RAID = RAID0 across 8 SAS drives
&gt;&gt; FS = ext4
&gt;&gt; FS options = /dev/mapper/vg0-lv0 / ext4
&gt;&gt; rw,noatime,barrier=0,stripe=512,data=ordered 0 0
&gt;&gt; bitcask size on one server = 133GB
&gt;&gt; AAE = off
&gt;&gt; interface = protobuf
&gt;&gt; client library = riak java client
&gt;&gt; file-max = 65536
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

