---
title: "Re: N00b question"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-07-29T09:59:44-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11804"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg11777"
author_name: "Mark Phillips"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-07-29T09:59:44-07:00
---


Hi Joel,

Welcome and sorry for the delayed response.

On Wed, Jul 24, 2013 at 7:18 PM, Joel Maleport  wrote:
&gt; Hi Folks,
&gt;
&gt; We're looking to migrate our systems to a new database and we really like 
&gt; what Riak provides. But we have one question lingering. We need to store and 
&gt; query a lot of floating point data. How well does Riak perform with searching 
&gt; for data that falls within a range? For example, if i wanted to search for 
&gt; geographical data within a range of latitudes and longitudes. I can't find 
&gt; much documentation on that topic. Any advice would be greatly appreciated.
&gt;

This sounds like a job for Yokozuna [1], the forthcoming revision to
Riak Search. While the current Riak Search [2] is our own version of
Solr that supports a subset of the API, Yokozuna will provide the full
Solr API. (As of the 0.7 release of Yokozuna [3], we support Solr
4.3.0.) As such, you should be able to use a combination of spatial
and range [4] to accomplish what you need. Yokozuna is still under
active development but is slated to be officially supported before the
end of the year with the release of Riak 2.0 and we're looking for
people to help bullet-proof it.

What's they database from which you're migrating? What type of
performance characteristics do you need?

Hope that helps.

Mark

[1] https://github.com/basho/yokozuna
[2] http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/dev/using/search/
[3] https://github.com/basho/yokozuna/blob/master/docs/RELEASE\\_NOTES.md#070
[4] http://wiki.apache.org/solr/SpatialSearch


&gt; V/R
&gt;
&gt; Joel Maleport
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

