---
title: "Re: Random timeouts on Riak"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-12-29T04:29:49-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15423"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15420"
author_name: "Russell Brown"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-12-29T04:29:49-08:00
---


Hi Jason,

I opened https://github.com/basho/riak\\_kv/issues/1069. Feel free to add any 
information to it that you think is pertinent.

On 29 Dec 2014, at 12:26, Jason Ryan  wrote:

&gt; No - those settings were set during the setup of the cluster.
&gt; 
&gt; &gt;&gt; Anyway you can get each of the N values from their backends separately so 
&gt; &gt;&gt; I can see there content lists?
&gt; 
&gt; The N value is 3 - or is it a particular command you want us to run on each 
&gt; node?

I will try and get this for you. It will involve attaching to the nodes in 
question and running some erlang in the console, probably.

Cheers

Russell

&gt; 
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; Jason
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On 29 December 2014 at 12:19, Russell Brown  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; On 29 Dec 2014, at 12:09, Jason Ryan  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; All types/buckets we use are set to allow\\_mult: false - last\\_write\\_wins:true
&gt; 
&gt; Did you change to this setting after these keys were written?
&gt; 
&gt; Looks like a bug in Riak, so I’m going to open a ticket: hd([]) should never 
&gt; be called in reconcile. But any further help we can get from you would be 
&gt; appreciated. Anyway you can get each of the N values from their backends 
&gt; separately so I can see there content lists?
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On 29 December 2014 at 12:08, Sargun Dhillon  wrote:
&gt;&gt; The bucket (type) that you're working with -- what are your
&gt;&gt; allow\\_mult, and last\\_write\\_wins settings?
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On Mon, Dec 29, 2014 at 4:05 AM, Jason Ryan  wrote:
&gt;&gt; &gt; It seems to move between 4 keys in particular, these keys are actually 
&gt;&gt; &gt; empty
&gt;&gt; &gt; at the moment (i.e. an empty JSON document).
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; CPU utilization is close to zero.
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; Can't see anything in particular, bar the error message I just posted
&gt;&gt; &gt; before.
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; Jason
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; On 29 December 2014 at 11:58, Ciprian Manea  wrote:
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; Hi Jason,
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; Are these random timeouts happening for only one key, or is common for
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; more?
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; What is the CPU utilisation in the cluster when you're experience these
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; timeouts?
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; Can you spot anything peculiar in your server's $ dmesg outputs? Any I/O
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; errors there?
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; Regards,
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; Ciprian
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; On Mon, Dec 29, 2014 at 1:55 PM, Sargun Dhillon  wrote:
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; Several things:
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; 1) I recommend you have a 5-node cluster:
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; http://basho.com/why-your-riak-cluster-should-have-at-least-five-nodes/
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; 2) What version of Riak are you using?
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; 3) What backend(s) are you using?
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; 4) What's the size of your keyspace?
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; 5) Are you actively rewriting keys, or writing keys to the cluster?
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; 6) Do you know how much I/O the cluster is currently doing?
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; On Mon, Dec 29, 2014 at 2:51 AM, Jason Ryan 
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; Hi,
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; We are getting random timeouts from our application (&gt;60seconds) when
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; we try
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; to retrieve a key from our Riak cluster (4 nodes with a load balancer
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; in
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; front of them). Our application just uses the standard REST API to
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; query
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; Riak.
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; We are pretty new to Riak - so would like to understand how best to
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; debug
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; this issue? Is there any good pointers on what to start with? This is
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; our
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; production cluster.
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; Jason
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; This message is for the named person's use only. If you received this
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; message in error, please immediately delete it and all copies and
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; notify the
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; sender. You must not, directly or indirectly, use, disclose,
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; distribute,
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; print, or copy any part of this message if you are not the intended
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; recipient. Any views expressed in this message are those of the
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; individual
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; sender and not Trustev Ltd. Trustev is registered in Ireland No. 516425
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; and
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; trades from 2100 Cork Airport Business Park, Cork, Ireland.
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; This message is for the named person's use only. If you received this
&gt;&gt; &gt; message in error, please immediately delete it and all copies and notify 
&gt;&gt; &gt; the
&gt;&gt; &gt; sender. You must not, directly or indirectly, use, disclose, distribute,
&gt;&gt; &gt; print, or copy any part of this message if you are not the intended
&gt;&gt; &gt; recipient. Any views expressed in this message are those of the individual
&gt;&gt; &gt; sender and not Trustev Ltd. Trustev is registered in Ireland No. 516425 and
&gt;&gt; &gt; trades from 2100 Cork Airport Business Park, Cork, Ireland.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; This message is for the named person's use only. If you received this 
&gt;&gt; message in error, please immediately delete it and all copies and notify the 
&gt;&gt; sender. You must not, directly or indirectly, use, disclose, distribute, 
&gt;&gt; print, or copy any part of this message if you are not the intended 
&gt;&gt; recipient. Any views expressed in this message are those of the individual 
&gt;&gt; sender and not Trustev Ltd. Trustev is registered in Ireland No. 516425 and 
&gt;&gt; trades from 2100 Cork Airport Business Park, Cork, Ireland.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; This message is for the named person's use only. If you received this message 
&gt; in error, please immediately delete it and all copies and notify the sender. 
&gt; You must not, directly or indirectly, use, disclose, distribute, print, or 
&gt; copy any part of this message if you are not the intended recipient. Any 
&gt; views expressed in this message are those of the individual sender and not 
&gt; Trustev Ltd. Trustev is registered in Ireland No. 516425 and trades from 2100 
&gt; Cork Airport Business Park, Cork, Ireland.
&gt; 

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

