---
title: "Re: Max/Min Integer CRDTs?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-02-09T02:35:11-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13632"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13629"
author_name: "Carlos Baquero"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-02-09T02:35:11-08:00
---



Hi,

Thats a really nice problem.

Max and Min are trivial. But the reset is probably not and can lead to some 
design decisions. 

When a replica does a reset it might be reasonable to restrict the reset to the 
values it has seen and not to other concurrent values it had not yet seen. A 
simpler LWW reset solution can probably be ok for some cases but a reset that 
makes sense causally is more demanding.

Carlos

-----
Carlos Baquero
HASLab / INESC TEC &
Universidade do Minho,
Portugal

c...@di.uminho.pt
http://gsd.di.uminho.pt/cbm





On 08/02/2014, at 23:27, Elias Levy wrote:

&gt; No, not a counter. An integer register that keeps either the minimum or the 
&gt; maximum value ever assigned to it (there be two variants, one for minimum and 
&gt; one for maximum).
&gt; 
&gt; In our particularly use case we'd like to keep the earliest and latest 
&gt; observed time of certain events, and it would be useful to be able to set 
&gt; these values in a Riak map data type without first having to fetch the map, 
&gt; compare the values in a register, and then write the map back. And doing 
&gt; this is not equivalent, since the current register implementation is LWW, so 
&gt; you are not guaranteed to actually end up with the minimum or maximum.
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Sat, Feb 8, 2014 at 3:00 PM, Jason Campbell  wrote:
&gt; My understanding of what Elias wanted was a counter that simply stored the 
&gt; minimum and maximum values it has ever reached, an optional reset would 
&gt; probably be nice as well. It would be quite helpful when dealing with 
&gt; statistics counters that can decrement.
&gt; 
&gt; Then again, I could be wrong.
&gt; 
&gt; ----- Original Message -----
&gt; From: "Russell Brown" 
&gt; To: "Elias Levy" 
&gt; Cc: "riak-users" 
&gt; Sent: Sunday, 9 February, 2014 9:53:42 AM
&gt; Subject: Re: Max/Min Integer CRDTs?
&gt; 
&gt; Hi Elias,
&gt; 
&gt; This is a great time for you to ask, if you’re asking what I think you’re 
&gt; asking.
&gt; 
&gt; On 8 Feb 2014, at 22:35, Elias Levy  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; &gt; Does Basho have any plans for implementing a CRDT that maintains the 
&gt; &gt; minimum or maximum value for an integer? It would come in handy in our 
&gt; &gt; application and it would be very simple to implement.
&gt; 
&gt; Do you mean some kind of bounded counter that cannot be incremented beyond 
&gt; (say 1000), or decremented below a certain bound (i.e. non-negative counter?) 
&gt; If so, then the plan is yes, but I’m not sure it is simple. If you have a 
&gt; design for such a thing please share it. We’re working with a team from 
&gt; Universidade Nova de Lisboa as part of the SyncFree project on this, but I’d 
&gt; love to hear your ideas for an implementation. If you want to keep it private 
&gt; feel free to email me off list.
&gt; 
&gt; Cheers
&gt; 
&gt; Russell
&gt; 
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Elias Levy
&gt; &gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com


\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

