---
title: "Re: Does Riak support Range Queries over binary safe strings?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-07-16T15:47:56-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11555"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg11554"
author_name: "Alexander Sicular"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-07-16T15:47:56-07:00
---


I would say no. Riak is generally oblivious as to the content of your data. Any 
ranges or other method you would use to query needs to be explicitly indexed 
via riak search or secondary indexes. Once you have found your data you could 
operate over that data in a map reduce, but I can't speak to "binary safe" blob 
operations in either erlang or JavaScript although I'm inclined to say yes, you 
would be able to operate over it in m/r. 

So searching for keys with certain data in the binblob is probably not gonna 
happen but once you have a key to feed an m/r you could get a slice of that 
value. 

Make sense? 
-Alexander

@siculars
http://siculars.posthaven.com

Sent from my iRotaryPhone

On Jul 16, 2013, at 18:17, gbrits  wrote:

&gt; First, hello all!
&gt; 
&gt; Coming from Redis, I love that you can just put any binary blob in Redis
&gt; which is just treated as a string. This is possible because Redis strings
&gt; are what they call 'binary safe'. This makes it possible to return slices of
&gt; string-encoded binary data, which is super useful for bitset-operations,
&gt; etc.
&gt; 
&gt; I'm investigating Riak and I like it a lot so far. Riak seems to have range
&gt; queries (on values, as it seems I must make that distinction with
&gt; column-stores), but I'm not sure if strings in Riak are "Binary safe" in the
&gt; above sense. If not, is there another way to store binary data in Riak and
&gt; still do range queries over them quickly?
&gt; 
&gt; To be exact: I want to do multi-key lookups in Riak, where each returned
&gt; result should be of format: 
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks, 
&gt; Geert-Jan
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; --
&gt; View this message in context: 
&gt; http://riak-users.197444.n3.nabble.com/Does-Riak-support-Range-Queries-over-binary-safe-strings-tp4028356.html
&gt; Sent from the Riak Users mailing list archive at Nabble.com.
&gt; 
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

