---
title: "RE: Contributing to Riak code-base, adding patches for optional	useful features"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-09-18T12:14:04-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16542"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16541"
author_name: "Rahman, Muntasir Raihan"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-09-18T12:14:04-07:00
---


Thanks Chris and Matt! I will try to submit a detailed pull request asap.

Best Regards
Muntasir.

From: Matthew Brender [mailto:mbren...@basho.com]
Sent: Friday, September 18, 2015 2:05 PM
To: Christopher Meiklejohn
Cc: Rahman, Muntasir Raihan; riak-users@lists.basho.com
Subject: Re: Contributing to Riak code-base, adding patches for optional useful 
features

Hi Muntasir,

Thank you for sharing this work! I agree with Chris: please open a detailed 
pull request when you have the time. I will be sure to route it to our internal 
teams once you share.

Have a great weekend,
Matt

Matt Brender | Developer Advocacy Lead
Basho Technologies
t: 
@mjbrender


On Fri, Sep 18, 2015 at 2:28 PM, Christopher Meiklejohn 
&gt; 
wrote:
Hi Muntasir,

I would probably submit a detailed pull request to Riak KV with the
changes, and a proper way to verify they work correctly.

Thanks,
Chris


On Fri, Sep 18, 2015 at 11:15 AM, Rahman, Muntasir Raihan
&gt; wrote:
&gt; Hi Chris,
&gt;
&gt; We made changes to Riak KV repository to add a control knob. The adaptive 
&gt; control mechanism is a separate middleware layer which uses the control knob 
&gt; we added to Riak KV. In addition to that we wrote a Riak YCSB connector, 
&gt; which is also not part of the Riak code base.
&gt;
&gt; Thanks
&gt; Muntasir.
&gt;
&gt; -----Original Message-----
&gt; From: Christopher Meiklejohn 
&gt; [mailto:christopher.meiklej...@gmail.com]
&gt; Sent: Friday, September 18, 2015 12:08 PM
&gt; To: Rahman, Muntasir Raihan
&gt; Cc: riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; Subject: Re: Contributing to Riak code-base, adding patches for optional 
&gt; useful features
&gt;
&gt; Hi Muntasir,
&gt;
&gt; What repositories did you modify to provide this functionality? Does it 
&gt; exist purely as a middleware layer, or was any work done on Riak Core or KV?
&gt;
&gt; - Chris
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Fri, Sep 18, 2015 at 9:57 AM, Rahman, Muntasir Raihan 
&gt; &gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt; Hi,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I am a PhD student working on distributed key-value storage systems
&gt;&gt; like Riak. Recently we have built an adaptive middleware framework
&gt;&gt; which can continuously tune kv store configurations (e.g., via
&gt;&gt; existing tuning knobs, and newly added/proposed knobs) to meet
&gt;&gt; consistency/availability service level agreements under changing
&gt;&gt; network conditions. We have deployed our system on top of Riak via a
&gt;&gt; small amount of code change in Riak (which could be submitted as a
&gt;&gt; patch), so that kv store developers can automatically tune the system
&gt;&gt; to meet SLAs. Now we are interested to contribute to the Riak community by 
&gt;&gt; adding our code to the Riak code base via a patch.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Can anyone kindly suggest how to go about this? Any suggestions would
&gt;&gt; be highly appreciated.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Muntasir.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

