---
title: "Re: solrconfig.xml in riak"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2016-04-26T10:16:10-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg17260"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg17259"
author_name: "Fred Dushin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2016-04-26T10:16:10-07:00
---


Hi Fasil,

Riak does not provide any administrative operations for this file. You can, 
however, edit the file for each Solr core on each riak node. You will find it 
under:

/yz//conf

You will need to restart either riak on that node, the Solr on that node, or 
the Yokozuna application on that node. You might even be able to get away will 
shutting down the yz\\_solr\\_proc (erlang) process on each node, as doing so 
cleanly will terminate Solr, and the process will be respawned by its 
supervisor.

If you are concerned about data consistency across replicas, you may want to 
attach to the Riak console, and, for example, stop and then restart the 
yokozuna app on all nodes all at once via the rpc:multicall function after you 
have made your changes to the config file, though there will always be 
trade-off between availability and consistency. Note that if you have AAE 
enabled, any writes you miss to Yokozuna while Solr is down will be repaired, 
but AAE will not be able to detect changes you have made to how you have parsed 
data.

Hope that helps,

-Fred 

&gt; On Apr 26, 2016, at 11:57 AM, Fasil K  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; Hello Everyone,
&gt; 
&gt; Do any one know how we can update the solrconfig.xml file for solr in riak 
&gt; search? 
&gt; 
&gt; The issue is I need to change a date format from 'YYYY-MM-DD' format to 
&gt; 'YYYY-MM-DDThh:mm:ssZ' for indexing . ( Cant index 'YYY-MM-DD' format 
&gt; directly to solr.TrieDateField ) . 
&gt; 
&gt; I am planning to use ParseDateFieldUpdateProcessorFactory to convert the 
&gt; format. But I have to change solrconfig.xml file for that.
&gt; 
&gt; Please help.
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks in advance,
&gt; 
&gt; Fasil K
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com


\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

