---
title: "RE: Contributing to Riak code-base, adding patches for optional	useful features"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-09-18T11:16:39-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16539"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16538"
author_name: "Rahman, Muntasir Raihan"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-09-18T11:16:39-07:00
---


Hi Chris,

We made changes to Riak KV repository to add a control knob. The adaptive 
control mechanism is a separate middleware layer which uses the control knob we 
added to Riak KV. In addition to that we wrote a Riak YCSB connector, which is 
also not part of the Riak code base.

Thanks
Muntasir.

-----Original Message-----
From: Christopher Meiklejohn [mailto:christopher.meiklej...@gmail.com] 
Sent: Friday, September 18, 2015 12:08 PM
To: Rahman, Muntasir Raihan
Cc: riak-users@lists.basho.com
Subject: Re: Contributing to Riak code-base, adding patches for optional useful 
features

Hi Muntasir,

What repositories did you modify to provide this functionality? Does it exist 
purely as a middleware layer, or was any work done on Riak Core or KV?

- Chris


On Fri, Sep 18, 2015 at 9:57 AM, Rahman, Muntasir Raihan 
 wrote:
&gt; Hi,
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; I am a PhD student working on distributed key-value storage systems 
&gt; like Riak. Recently we have built an adaptive middleware framework 
&gt; which can continuously tune kv store configurations (e.g., via 
&gt; existing tuning knobs, and newly added/proposed knobs) to meet 
&gt; consistency/availability service level agreements under changing 
&gt; network conditions. We have deployed our system on top of Riak via a 
&gt; small amount of code change in Riak (which could be submitted as a 
&gt; patch), so that kv store developers can automatically tune the system 
&gt; to meet SLAs. Now we are interested to contribute to the Riak community by 
&gt; adding our code to the Riak code base via a patch.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Can anyone kindly suggest how to go about this? Any suggestions would 
&gt; be highly appreciated.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Thanks
&gt;
&gt; Muntasir.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

