---
title: "Re: Unsolved problem using Riak TS Java Client"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2017-04-13T01:16:18-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg18142"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg18141"
author_name: "Allexandre Sampaio"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2017-04-13T01:16:18-07:00
---


Hey, now I found the problem. Actually, I was setting up the connection
wrong (forgot to check the default way in the library's page).
Now it's working fine! Thank you for being helpful!

Att.,

\\*Allexandre Sampaio\\*
\\*Sistemas de Informação - IFBA\\*
\\*Vitória da Conquista - BA\\*
\\*(77) 99964 3521\\*

2017-04-12 11:40 GMT-03:00 Allexandre Sampaio :

&gt; Hey Alex, thank you for helping.
&gt; So, answering you:
&gt;
&gt; 1. I'm setting up the connections as recomended in the client's example
&gt; provided by the Docs page, here
&gt; . If you prefer,
&gt; you can see my application coding (in progress) on its repository
&gt; 
&gt; in
&gt; Github.
&gt; 2. Yes, I've already used the riak\\_shell and the HTTP interface, both work
&gt; fine...
&gt; 3. No, let's say I'm in a hurry and couldn't code the logging module of my
&gt; application until now.
&gt;
&gt; Thank you again!
&gt;
&gt; Att.,
&gt;
&gt; \\*Allexandre Sampaio\\*
&gt; \\*Sistemas de Informação - IFBA\\*
&gt; \\*Vitória da Conquista - BA\\*
&gt; \\*(77) 99964 3521\\*
&gt;
&gt; 2017-04-12 11:02 GMT-03:00 Alex Moore :
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi Allexandre,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; A few things to start:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; 1. Could you share how you are setting up the connections in the Java
&gt;&gt; client?
&gt;&gt; 2. Are you able to connect to your Riak TS cluster using the HTTP
&gt;&gt; interface, or riak\\_shell ?
&gt;&gt; 3. Are there any log files from your java application?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt; Alex Moore
&gt;&gt; Team Lead, Clients Team
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Wed, Apr 12, 2017 at 8:11 AM, Allexandre Sampaio &lt;
&gt;&gt; allexandre...@gmail.com&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Hi, I'm new to Riak and I'm using the TS version to perform some tests
&gt;&gt;&gt; in my Java application, running on an Ubuntu 16.04 server, for a college
&gt;&gt;&gt; project.
&gt;&gt;&gt; The library I'm using is riak-client-2.1.1, with all of its dependencies.
&gt;&gt;&gt; But, when I try to connect to the DB to save data, the connection
&gt;&gt;&gt; doesn't happen, and after a few minutes, the java proccess is closed.
&gt;&gt;&gt; What could it be? Maybe a problem with the DB settings?
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Att.,
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; \\*Allexandre Sampaio\\*
&gt;&gt;&gt; \\*Vitória da Conquista - BA, Brazil\\*
&gt;&gt;&gt; \\*+55 (77) 99964 3521 &lt;+55%2077%2099964-3521&gt;\\*
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

