---
title: "Re: Riak Crash"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-08-11T14:23:16-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11971"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg11953"
author_name: "Lucas Cooper"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-08-11T14:23:16-07:00
---


Hey Mark,

As I've said to two of the other Basho guys (privately), I'm running Riak
1.4 on 3 512MB Xen VPS.

I've since come to the conclusion that Riak is not a good solution for me
in the short term, it requires a great deal more RAM than I am prepared to
give it. Notably, the max\\_open\\_files default and minimum value for a vnode
is 30, which means that a vnode will \\*always \\*require 120MB of RAM \\*minimum.
\\* With a static ring size, you need to have a cluster ready to handle your
maximum memory load when you first create it.

This makes Riak rather impractical for me (I don't have the hardware to
throw at a Riak cluster right now but I'd like something that can scale)
and has led to me switching to MongoDB which, although it requires a little
extra configuration in the future, is working great right now. I'm really
missing Riak's text search though.

On Sun, Aug 11, 2013 at 3:50 AM, Mark Phillips  wrote:

&gt; Hey Lucas,
&gt;
&gt; Like Evan, I haven't had time to dig into the logs. Just so we know what
&gt; the baseline is here:
&gt;
&gt; \\* How many nodes of Riak?
&gt; \\* What version of Riak?
&gt; \\* What type of hardware?
&gt; \\* What's your open files limit [1] ?
&gt;
&gt; Mark
&gt;
&gt; [1] http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/ops/tuning/open-files-limit/
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Sat, Aug 10, 2013 at 9:27 AM, Lucas Cooper wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Yes, Search indexing is enabled.
&gt;&gt; On 10/08/2013 11:27 PM, "Russell Brown"  wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Are you using riak search?
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; On 9 Aug 2013, at 18:17, Lucas Cooper  wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; I had a crash of an entire cluster early this morning, I'm not
&gt;&gt;&gt; entirely sure why, seems to be something with the indexer or Protocol
&gt;&gt;&gt; Buffers (or my use of them). Here are the various logs:
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://egf.me/logs.tar.xz
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; Any idea what's up? All this crashing is kinda putting me off Riak .\\_.
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

