---
title: "Re: Production server specs for Riak node"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-04-25T16:56:06-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10980"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg10973"
author_name: "Tom Zeng"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-04-25T16:56:06-07:00
---


Thanks Dmitri and Matt for the info, those are very helpful. The short
version is great, will dive into the links more.


On Thu, Apr 25, 2013 at 2:16 PM, Dmitri Zagidulin wrote:

&gt; Tom,
&gt;
&gt; In addition to Matt's links above, I would recommend to take a look at the
&gt; following pages:
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/references/appendices/Cluster-Capacity-Planning/
&gt; and
&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/tutorials/System-Planning/
&gt;
&gt; The short version is:
&gt; \\* RAM is important, especially with Bitcask. I personally wouldn't give
&gt; nodes less than 16GB each, though I suppose they could run with 8. (The
&gt; reason I mention Bitcask, is because it stores all of its keys in memory,
&gt; and if you have too many keys and too little memory, you're going to run
&gt; out. See
&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/references/appendices/Bitcask-Capacity-Planning/for
&gt; a calculator that can help you ensure how much RAM you need, if you
&gt; know how many millions of keys you're going to store, and how large each
&gt; one is)
&gt;
&gt; \\* Disk IO speed is very important, and is usually the bottleneck for
&gt; clusters. RAID or SSDs are helpful. If you're running on AWS, disk IO is
&gt; especially killer, so spring for sufficient Provisioned IOPS.
&gt;
&gt; \\* Network bandwidth is important (between the nodes). If your cluster has
&gt; the default replication setting of N=3, each read or write request to a
&gt; node results in potentially 3 network requests to other nodes (this is in
&gt; addition to background-level "gossip" between the nodes, as they try and
&gt; maintain consistency, perform read-repair and so on). So basically, use the
&gt; fastest network speed you can afford (that makes sense for your
&gt; application). If you can spring for Gigabit+, go for it. If the application
&gt; is especially time-sensitive and is under high load, it may make sense to
&gt; have 2 network adapters for each node -- one for external client requests,
&gt; and one for internal inter-node traffic.
&gt;
&gt; \\* If you're running on AWS, your minimum instance size should be m1.large,
&gt; though really, you should use xlarge. (And don't forget about those PIOPS).
&gt;
&gt; Does that help clarify?
&gt;
&gt; Dmitri
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Mon, Apr 22, 2013 at 7:11 PM, Matt Black wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; There's a lot of information in here:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/cookbooks/Linux-Performance-Tuning/
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; And the sister article, specific to AWS:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/cookbooks/Performance-Tuning-AWS/
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; As ever with Riak, the answer to your question depends on what you're
&gt;&gt; doing :)
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On 23 April 2013 02:07, Tom Zeng  wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Hi,
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; I am wondering if there are any docs/recommendations on server hardware
&gt;&gt;&gt; specs for production Riak instances - cores, clock speed, network
&gt;&gt;&gt; interfaces/bandwidth, hard drive raid vs ssd, and etc.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Tom
&gt;&gt;&gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt;&gt; Tom Zeng
&gt;&gt;&gt; Director of Engineering
&gt;&gt;&gt; Intridea, Inc. | www.intridea.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; t...@intridea.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; (o) 888.968.4332 x519
&gt;&gt;&gt; (c) 240-643-8728
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;


-- 
Tom Zeng
Director of Engineering
Intridea, Inc. | www.intridea.com
t...@intridea.com
(o) 888.968.4332 x519
(c) 240-643-8728
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

