---
title: "Re: map-db"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-01-21T05:09:01-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15552"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15547"
author_name: "Ildar Alishev"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-01-21T05:09:01-08:00
---


Hello Christopher,

i have asked question to Muchdifferent, and they says that they don’t support 
2.0.x version of Riak, soooooo it means that i should downgrade my version to 
1.4.2 how i can do it????


Thank you!
&gt; 21 янв. 2015 г., в 14:46, Christopher Meiklejohn 
&gt;  написал(а):
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On Jan 21, 2015, at 12:41 PM, Ildar Alishev  wrote:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Hi Christopher,
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; thank you for your answer.
&gt;&gt; Honestly we work with ugameDb and order is next
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; we start executing code (using C# in Unity3d), it goes to ugame db, than 
&gt;&gt; after ugamedb it goes to Riak(i think ugameDB use RIAK), and after this it 
&gt;&gt; sends us answer.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; What code should i send you??? 
&gt;&gt; it is first time we are working with ugamedb and riak at all, so we are some 
&gt;&gt; sort of noobs)
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; here is some code that i’m using in Unity3d (C#)
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; public IEnumerator eMapQuery()
&gt;&gt; {
&gt;&gt; var map = buck.MapReduce(new ErlangMapPhase("unity", "map\\_phase"), 
&gt;&gt; new ErlangReducePhase("unity", "reduce\\_phase"));
&gt;&gt; Debug.Log("Start");
&gt;&gt; yield return map.WaitUntilDone();
&gt;&gt; if(map.isSuccessful)
&gt;&gt; foreach (var item in map.GetResult())
&gt;&gt; {
&gt;&gt; Debug.Log("Ok");
&gt;&gt; foreach (var pair in item.Fields) Debug.Log(pair.Key + " = " + 
&gt;&gt; pair.Value.ToString());
&gt;&gt; }
&gt;&gt; else
&gt;&gt; {
&gt;&gt; Debug.Log("Fail");
&gt;&gt; }
&gt;&gt; }
&gt; 
&gt; Hi Ildar,
&gt; 
&gt; Can you provide me a little more information?
&gt; 
&gt; 1.) Which Riak client are you using to connect from C#?
&gt; 2.) Can you show me the code where “buck” is defined?
&gt; 3.) Can you show me the code where the connection to Riak is initialized?
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks!
&gt; - Chris

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

