---
title: "Re: Tuning a Riak cluster."
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-02-21T18:27:55-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10191"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg10190"
author_name: "Alexander Sicular"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-02-21T18:27:55-08:00
---


It can't be said enough times but the number one thing you can do to ensure 
that you are getting true performance (not to mention redundancy) is to use 
different physical hardware for each of your nodes. Under no circumstances 
should you have more than one VM (one logical node in a Riak cluster) on the 
same physical hardware. Also, use multiple 
connections/threads/parallelism/whatever on client side and be sure to hit all 
the nodes in the cluster haproxy roundrobin-esque when writing to Riak. 
Everything else is in the noise.

-Alexander Sicular

@siculars

On Feb 21, 2013, at 9:04 PM, Kevin Burton  wrote:

&gt; 
&gt; There each has about 20-30GB of disk space. They each are a VM so I am not 
&gt; sure how to specify the CPU. They all seem to be 64 bit Intel processors but 
&gt; I could tell you the clock speed. The network is 1Gb Ethernet.
&gt; 
&gt; From: Sean Carey [mailto:ca...@basho.com] 
&gt; Sent: Thursday, February 21, 2013 7:59 PM
&gt; To: Kevin Burton
&gt; Cc: riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; Subject: Re: Tuning a Riak cluster.
&gt; 
&gt; Kevin,
&gt; Disk and CPU, and Network?
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; Sean Carey
&gt; @densone
&gt; 
&gt; On Thursday, February 21, 2013 at 20:31, Kevin Burton wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; I have a cluster of 4 machines (4 Linux VM machines each allocated about 1 Gb 
&gt; of memory – yea I know it isn’t a lot). I would like to get some pointers on 
&gt; getting the fastest query time possible given these meager resources. Thank 
&gt; you.
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

