---
title: "Re: Random timeouts on Riak"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-12-29T04:27:01-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15421"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15420"
author_name: "Jason Ryan"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-12-29T04:27:01-08:00
---


No - those settings were set during the setup of the cluster.

&gt;&gt; Anyway you can get each of the N values from their backends separately
so I can see there content lists?

The N value is 3 - or is it a particular command you want us to run on each
node?

Thanks,
Jason


On 29 December 2014 at 12:19, Russell Brown  wrote:

&gt;
&gt; On 29 Dec 2014, at 12:09, Jason Ryan  wrote:
&gt;
&gt; All types/buckets we use are set to allow\\_mult: false -
&gt; last\\_write\\_wins:true
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Did you change to this setting after these keys were written?
&gt;
&gt; Looks like a bug in Riak, so I’m going to open a ticket: hd([]) should
&gt; never be called in reconcile. But any further help we can get from you
&gt; would be appreciated. Anyway you can get each of the N values from their
&gt; backends separately so I can see there content lists?
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On 29 December 2014 at 12:08, Sargun Dhillon  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; The bucket (type) that you're working with -- what are your
&gt;&gt; allow\\_mult, and last\\_write\\_wins settings?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Mon, Dec 29, 2014 at 4:05 AM, Jason Ryan 
&gt;&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt; &gt; It seems to move between 4 keys in particular, these keys are actually
&gt;&gt; empty
&gt;&gt; &gt; at the moment (i.e. an empty JSON document).
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; CPU utilization is close to zero.
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; Can't see anything in particular, bar the error message I just posted
&gt;&gt; &gt; before.
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; Jason
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; On 29 December 2014 at 11:58, Ciprian Manea  wrote:
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; Hi Jason,
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; Are these random timeouts happening for only one key, or is common for
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; more?
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; What is the CPU utilisation in the cluster when you're experience these
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; timeouts?
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; Can you spot anything peculiar in your server's $ dmesg outputs? Any
&gt;&gt; I/O
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; errors there?
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; Regards,
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; Ciprian
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; On Mon, Dec 29, 2014 at 1:55 PM, Sargun Dhillon 
&gt;&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; Several things:
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; 1) I recommend you have a 5-node cluster:
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; http://basho.com/why-your-riak-cluster-should-have-at-least-five-nodes/
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; 2) What version of Riak are you using?
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; 3) What backend(s) are you using?
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; 4) What's the size of your keyspace?
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; 5) Are you actively rewriting keys, or writing keys to the cluster?
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; 6) Do you know how much I/O the cluster is currently doing?
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; On Mon, Dec 29, 2014 at 2:51 AM, Jason Ryan 
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; Hi,
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; We are getting random timeouts from our application (&gt;60seconds)
&gt;&gt; when
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; we try
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; to retrieve a key from our Riak cluster (4 nodes with a load
&gt;&gt; balancer
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; in
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; front of them). Our application just uses the standard REST API to
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; query
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; Riak.
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; We are pretty new to Riak - so would like to understand how best to
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; debug
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; this issue? Is there any good pointers on what to start with? This
&gt;&gt; is
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; our
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; production cluster.
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; Jason
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; This message is for the named person's use only. If you received
&gt;&gt; this
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; message in error, please immediately delete it and all copies and
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; notify the
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; sender. You must not, directly or indirectly, use, disclose,
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; distribute,
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; print, or copy any part of this message if you are not the intended
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; recipient. Any views expressed in this message are those of the
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; individual
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; sender and not Trustev Ltd. Trustev is registered in Ireland No.
&gt;&gt; 516425
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; and
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; trades from 2100 Cork Airport Business Park, Cork, Ireland.
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; This message is for the named person's use only. If you received this
&gt;&gt; &gt; message in error, please immediately delete it and all copies and
&gt;&gt; notify the
&gt;&gt; &gt; sender. You must not, directly or indirectly, use, disclose, distribute,
&gt;&gt; &gt; print, or copy any part of this message if you are not the intended
&gt;&gt; &gt; recipient. Any views expressed in this message are those of the
&gt;&gt; individual
&gt;&gt; &gt; sender and not Trustev Ltd. Trustev is registered in Ireland No. 516425
&gt;&gt; and
&gt;&gt; &gt; trades from 2100 Cork Airport Business Park, Cork, Ireland.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; This message is for the named person's use only. If you received this
&gt; message in error, please immediately delete it and all copies and notify
&gt; the sender. You must not, directly or indirectly, use, disclose,
&gt; distribute, print, or copy any part of this message if you are not the
&gt; intended recipient. Any views expressed in this message are those of the
&gt; individual sender and not Trustev Ltd. Trustev is registered in Ireland
&gt; No. 516425 and trades from 2100 Cork Airport Business Park, Cork, Ireland.
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;

-- 


This message is for the named person's use only. If you received this 
message in error, please immediately delete it and all copies and notify 
the sender. You must not, directly or indirectly, use, disclose, 
distribute, print, or copy any part of this message if you are not the 
intended recipient. Any views expressed in this message are those of the 
individual sender and not Trustev Ltd. Trustev is registered in Ireland No. 
516425 and trades from 2100 Cork Airport Business Park, Cork, Ireland.
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

