---
title: "riak-cs reclaim storage"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-06-06T07:54:01-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14300"
author_name: "Tyler Flint"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-06-06T07:54:01-07:00
---


Thank you in advance for any assistance.

To explore riak-cs, I setup a 2 node cluster with riak and riak-cs on each 
node, and put the riak nodes on the same cluster. I then proceeded to use 
risk-cs by uploading a 3G file using the multi-part upload protocol. I was 
unaware, however, that I needed to finalize the multipart upload and thus had 
many in progress multi-part uploads. Through the duration of my 
troubleshooting, the storage on the filesystem grew to 224G. Once I discovered 
my error, I proceeded to cancel all of the previous uploads. At this point 
there are no uploads in progress, and only a single 3G file available in the 
bucket. However, it has been 48 hours since the exploration and the storage use 
is still 224G on both machines.

I have attempted multiple strategies in attempt to reclaim space, all without 
any effect.

Within riak-cs:

- I have shortened the gc leeway duration to 5 minutes and set all of the gc 
intervals as low as 5 minutes.
- I have manually triggered the riak-cs-gc batch multiple times. (After running 
batch, status shows a gc run and eventually complete)

Within riak:

- I have adjusted the bitcask settings in attempt to trigger a merge.
- I have force merged all of the bitcask partitions manually in the erlang 
console. 

None of these strategies seem to have any effect whatsoever.

At this point I’m not even sure where to start, nor do I know if the issue is 
within riak-cs or riak (via bitcask). Any suggestions would be appreciated.

Thanks

Tyler
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

