---
title: "Re: riak_repl integration"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2017-12-05T11:31:35-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg18493"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg18492"
author_name: "Bryan Hunt"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2017-12-05T11:31:35-08:00
---


Raghu,

We’re mid way through building packages, in the meantime, if you’re feeling 
impatient you can try the following : 

https://gist.github.com/bryanhuntesl/cc0eefa6939b757ca7b86ebb1d7b29b2 


The above recipe requires a reasonably recent Docker daemon and cli tools 
installed on the host. 

Best Regards,

Bryan Hunt



&gt; On 5 Dec 2017, at 19:17, Raghavendra Sayana 
&gt;  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; Hey Bryan,
&gt; 
&gt; We are running riak 2.1.4 on RHEL 6
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks
&gt; Raghu
&gt; 
&gt; -----Original Message-----
&gt; From: Bryan Hunt [mailto:bryan.h...@erlang-solutions.com] 
&gt; Sent: Tuesday, December 05, 2017 12:59 PM
&gt; To: Raghavendra Sayana 
&gt; Cc: Dan Sweeney ; riak-users 
&gt; 
&gt; Subject: Re: riak\\_repl integration
&gt; 
&gt; Raghu, 
&gt; 
&gt; What bistro are you running? 
&gt; 
&gt; Bryan 
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On 5 Dec 2017, at 17:10, Russell Brown  wrote:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Hi Raghu,
&gt;&gt; At present Riak is still stuck on the r16 basho OTP. This will change next 
&gt;&gt; year. For now, and the next release of riak, r16 is the compiler you need.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; If you want to use riak\\_repl with open source riak, there are a couple of 
&gt;&gt; options. There is the 2.2.4 tag in the basho riak repo, which bet365 kindly 
&gt;&gt; put together when riak\\_repl was open sourced. Cloning 
&gt;&gt; https://github.com/basho/riak and checking out tag 2.2.4, then running `make 
&gt;&gt; rel` will get you a local release of OS riak as it was at 2.2.3 + riak\\_repl. 
&gt;&gt; Someone did mention maybe building packages of 2.2.4, if you’d rather 
&gt;&gt; download than build your own, but I don’t know if that happened yet.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; In order to \\_use\\_ MDC you can follow the docs on basho’s site 
&gt;&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riak/kv/2.2.3/configuring/v3-multi-datacenter/.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; There is a branch develop-2.2.5 which is the active work for the next 
&gt;&gt; release of riak, which will contain riak\\_repl. We plan to release 
&gt;&gt; riak-2.2.5 (OS riak+repl, and some small features+bug fixes) in early 2018.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Hope that helps
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Cheers
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Russell
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On 5 Dec 2017, at 16:11, Raghavendra Sayana 
&gt;&gt;  wrote:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Hi All,
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; I want to use riak MDC replication using riak\\_repl module. Is there any 
&gt;&gt;&gt; documentation on how I can perform this integration? Do you know what 
&gt;&gt;&gt; erlang compiler version I should be using to compile the code? Any help on 
&gt;&gt;&gt; this is appreciated.
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Thanks
&gt;&gt;&gt; Raghu
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; 

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

