---
title: "Re: riak source build error."
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-05-20T22:29:09-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16142"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16140"
author_name: "Atul Sowani"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-05-20T22:29:09-07:00
---


Hi!

While waiting for some help, I wanted to try to compile Riak code with the
recommended Erlang version R16B02. On my system I had R17. So I downloaded
Basho's Erlang distribution as described on
http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/ops/building/installing/erlang/

One thing I noticed after extracting OTP\\_R16B02\\_basho8 is that configure
script is missing. I generated configure script using autoconf. Is this the
correct procedure, or the configure script should have been there to start
with?

After generating configure myself, I executed it. However, it seems that it
also expects a "configure" script under directory
OTP\\_R16B02\\_basho8/erts/autoconf/configure

This script is missing. My question is should this script get
auto-generated or am I supposed to generate one? If it is supposed to get
auto-generated, for some reason it is not getting generated.

Has anybody faced these problems earlier? Am I doing the right thing or
missing something important?

Thanks,
Atul.

On Wed, May 20, 2015 at 11:49 AM, Atul Sowani  wrote:

&gt; Hi Clay and Rob,
&gt;
&gt; Thank for responding to my query. Rob, sorry for combining reply for your
&gt; mail here but I guess following information will be useful for both of you.
&gt;
&gt; My current interaction with Riak is only for evaluation and to see how
&gt; easy/difficult it is to use it for different Linux distributions. Hence I
&gt; obtained the Riak source code from GitHub and tried to compile it. I am no
&gt; expert in Erlang and have never used it before. So I am worried about the
&gt; error I got while compiling Riak. I tried to search for similar error on
&gt; Google, but it did not lead me to any definitive solution. I am using
&gt; Erlang 17.1 version.
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; Atul.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Tue, May 19, 2015 at 6:29 PM, Clay Price  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hey Atul,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I'd like to connect you with one of our solutions architects, who should
&gt;&gt; be able to help with your issue. Do you have some availability on Thursday
&gt;&gt; to discuss your issue? Also, if you could send over to me your use case for
&gt;&gt; Riak, I can get some information prepared that you might find beneficial.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Looking forward to hearing back.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Clay
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Tue, May 19, 2015 at 7:23 AM, Atul Sowani  wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Hi,
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; I am new to this mailing list. I am trying to build riak from source on
&gt;&gt;&gt; Ubuntu 14.10. I cloned riak code from GitHub and as given in "Building
&gt;&gt;&gt; Riak" section of README.org file, issued "make rel" command. Everything
&gt;&gt;&gt; seemed to compile fine, until I received following error as in the log
&gt;&gt;&gt; snippet below:
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; ==&gt; riak (compile)
&gt;&gt;&gt; ./rebar generate
&gt;&gt;&gt; ==&gt; rel (generate)
&gt;&gt;&gt; ERROR: Unable to generate spec: read file info
&gt;&gt;&gt; /usr/lib/erlang/man/man1/gem.1.gz failed
&gt;&gt;&gt; ERROR: Unexpected error: rebar\\_abort
&gt;&gt;&gt; ERROR: generate failed while processing /home/test/riak/rel: rebar\\_abort
&gt;&gt;&gt; Makefile:34: recipe for target 'generate' failed
&gt;&gt;&gt; make: \\*\\*\\* [generate] Error 1
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; /usr/lib/erlang/man/man1/gem.1.gz file is present and is a valid file
&gt;&gt;&gt; (meaning not an empty file, inaccessible file etc.)
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; I have no idea how to get around this error. Any help is highly
&gt;&gt;&gt; appreciated.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt;&gt; Atul.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; Clay Price
&gt;&gt; 571-732-2502
&gt;&gt; www.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

