---
title: "Re: Performance Tuning in OmniOS"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-01-21T07:49:14-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13426"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13421"
author_name: "Hector Castro"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-01-21T07:49:14-08:00
---


Hello,

Can you please clarify what type of disk you are using within AWS?
EBS, EBS with PIOPS, instance storage? In addition, maybe some details
on volume sizes and instance types.

These details may help someone attempting to answer your question.

--
Hector


On Tue, Jan 21, 2014 at 8:11 AM, Hari John Kuriakose  wrote:
&gt;
&gt; I am running LevelDB on ZFS in Solaris (OmniOS specifically) in Amazon AWS.
&gt; The iops is very very low. There is no significant progress with tuning too.
&gt;
&gt; Why I chose ZFS is that since LevelDB requires the node to be stopped before
&gt; taking a backup, I needed a filesystem with snapshot ability. And the most
&gt; favourable Amazon community AMI seemed to be using OmniOS (fork of Solaris).
&gt; Everything is fine, except the performance.
&gt;
&gt; I did all the AWS tuning proposed by Basho but still Basho Bench gave twice
&gt; iops on Ubuntu as compared to OmniOS, under same conditions. Also, I am
&gt; using riak-js client library, and its a 5 node Riak cluster with 8GB ram
&gt; each.
&gt;
&gt; Could not yet figure out what is really causing the congestion in OmniOS.
&gt; Any pointers will be really helpful.
&gt;
&gt; Thanks and regards,
&gt; Hari John Kuriakose.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

