---
title: "Re: AAE problems"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-06-17T11:30:13-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14323"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14322"
author_name: "István"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-06-17T11:30:13-07:00
---


Thanks Jordan,

Much appreciated!

I think we are good now, I deleted the AAE data and restarted the
service on one node and I am going to monitor the growth of the AAE
folder over time. See what happens.

Best regards,
Istvan

On Tue, Jun 17, 2014 at 10:48 AM, Jordan West  wrote:
&gt; On Tue, Jun 17, 2014 at 9:46 AM, István  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Is there any reason to let AAE running if we don't mutate the data in
&gt;&gt; place?
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Yes. If your data is infrequently accessed after being written then no
&gt; read-repair will take place. While values may not conflict, values may be
&gt; missing (e.g. a write only successfully reached 2 of 3 nodes) or corrupt
&gt; (bit rot on disk).
&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Is there any way knowing what is causing the difference according to
&gt;&gt; AAE between two nodes?
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; This information is not currently exposed, unfortunately. Given the minimal
&gt; number of repaired keys its likely a write failed to one node or raced with
&gt; an AAE exchange between two pairs of nodes.
&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I was thinking about how this could potentially
&gt;&gt; happen and I am wondering if the Java client pb interface supports R
&gt;&gt; and W values, so I could make sure that a write goes in with W=(the
&gt;&gt; number of nodes we have).
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; While this is possible, although you'd want to set W=N, where N=number of
&gt; replicas (n\\_val), it will affect the performance of your writes -- although
&gt; that may not matter given the boost from turning AAE off. In the end, it is
&gt; the operators decision whether or not the storage and performance overhead
&gt; of AAE is worth the added safety\\*. If you are frequently accessing 100% of
&gt; your data set then there is less need to increase the W per request or use
&gt; AAE. However, many data sets have a large amount of data that is
&gt; infrequently accessed and the added safety is worth the cost.
&gt;
&gt; Hope that helps. Cheers,
&gt; Jordan
&gt;
&gt; \\* In the upcoming Riak 2.0 release, in order to write data to buckets w/
&gt; the consistent property set to true enabling AAE will be required



-- 
the sun shines for all

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

