---
title: "Re: examples of map reduce in post commit hook"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-02-19T18:18:13-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15761"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15759"
author_name: "Alexander Sicular"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-02-19T18:18:13-08:00
---


Map/reduce aside, in the general case, I do time series in Riak with 
deterministic materialized keys at specific time granularities. Ie. 

/devices/deviceID\\_YYYYMMDDHHMM[SS]

So my device or app stack will drop data into a one second resolution key (if 
second resolution is needed) into Riak memory backend in a materialized key 
(the combination of ID and timestamp). Then retrieve the data deterministically 
(so you skip the search) at a one minute resolution by issuing a 60 key multi 
get for each second in that minute. Have a trailing process that sweeps memory 
and does larger granularity rollups/analytics/math/whatever and write that to 
memory or disk. All depends on frequency. 

Best,
Alexander 

@siculars
http://siculars.posthaven.com

Sent from my iRotaryPhone

&gt; On Feb 19, 2015, at 19:08, Christopher Meiklejohn  
&gt; wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On Feb 19, 2015, at 8:01 PM, Fred Grim  wrote:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Given a specific data blob I want to move a time series into a search
&gt;&gt; bucket. So first I have to build out the time series and then move it
&gt;&gt; over. Maybe I should use the rabbitmq post commit hook to send the data
&gt;&gt; somewhere else for the query to be run or something like that?
&gt; 
&gt; Given your scenario, it seems that a portion of these writes would have 
&gt; MapReduce jobs that resulted in nothing happening — I assume you only
&gt; bucket the series every so many writes or time period, correct?
&gt; 
&gt; I’d highly recommend doing this externally, or identifying a method for
&gt; pre-bucket’ing the data given the rate of ingestion.
&gt; 
&gt; - Chris
&gt; 
&gt; Christopher Meiklejohn
&gt; Senior Software Engineer
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; cmeiklej...@basho.com
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

