---
title: "Re: Tuning a Riak cluster."
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-02-26T03:47:46-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10243"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg10239"
author_name: "Richard Shaw"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-02-26T03:47:46-08:00
---


Hi Kevin,

Yes I have, please can you let me know which basho bench config you're
using and its contents

Thanks

Richard


Richard Shaw
Client Services Engineer EMEA
Basho Technologies
+44 (0)7590 507683
rich...@basho.com


On Mon, Feb 25, 2013 at 10:10 PM, Kevin Burton wrote:

&gt; Did you have a chance to look at the basho\\_bench errors?
&gt;
&gt; On Feb 23, 2013, at 2:35 AM, Richard Shaw  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Hi Kevin,
&gt;
&gt; I sympathise with R, i'm going to write an installation guide to go on the
&gt; site.
&gt;
&gt; In regards to the error, please paste in the contents of you vm.args file
&gt; from the target node
&gt;
&gt; Thanks
&gt;
&gt; Richard
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Fri, Feb 22, 2013 at 11:05 PM,  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Here is the output from one configuration try:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; 17:00:08.878 [info] Using http target "172.16.33.138":8098 for worker 2
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; 17:00:08.878 [info] Using pb target "172.16.33.138":8087 for worker 2
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; 17:00:08.993 [debug] Supervisor basho\\_bench\\_sup started
&gt;&gt; basho\\_bench\\_worker:start\\_link(basho\\_bench\\_worker\\_2, 2) at pid &lt;0.96.0&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; 17:00:08.999 [info] Using http target "172.16.33.107":8098 for worker 3
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; 17:00:09.001 [info] Using pb target "172.16.33.107":8087 for worker 3
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; 17:00:09.006 [debug] Supervisor basho\\_bench\\_sup started
&gt;&gt; basho\\_bench\\_worker:start\\_link(basho\\_bench\\_worker\\_3, 3) at pid &lt;0.99.0&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; 17:00:09.022 [debug] Supervisor net\\_sup started erl\\_epmd:start\\_link() at
&gt;&gt; pid &lt;0.104.0&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; 17:00:09.029 [debug] Supervisor net\\_sup started auth:start\\_link() at pid
&gt;&gt; &lt;0.105.0&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; 17:00:09.030 [info] Can't set long node name!
&gt;&gt; Please check your configuration
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; 17:00:09.030 [error] Failed to start net\\_kernel for
&gt;&gt; basho\\_bench\\_measurement\\_erlangvm:
&gt;&gt; {shutdown,{child,undefined,net\\_sup\\_dynamic,{erl\\_distribution,start\\_link,[[basho\\_bench,longnames]]},permanent,1000,supervisor,[erl\\_distribution]}}
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; There is alot more output but this is the tail end of the output.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Fri, Feb 22, 2013 at 4:34 PM, Richard Shaw wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi Kevin,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Always good practise to reply to the mailing list so others can benefit
&gt;&gt; from the content
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; basho bench is the best place to start, If you have a working cluster or
&gt;&gt; even a working single node, follow the benchmarking guide[0]
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Please let me see some of the specific errors you're having and we can
&gt;&gt; help resolve them.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Outside of basho bench, I recommend benchmarking the raw performance of
&gt;&gt; your VM, you can do this using a variety of tools like iostat, iperf or a
&gt;&gt; test suite like Phoronix test suite, a very comprehensive FOSS tool[1] look
&gt;&gt; at the `aio` test
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I'd also recommend benchmarking each time you make a configuration change
&gt;&gt; to really understand how effective that change was
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; [0] 
&gt;&gt; \\*http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/cookbooks/Benchmarking/\\*
&gt;&gt; [1] 
&gt;&gt; \\*http://www.phoronix-test-suite.com/\\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Kind Regards 
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Richard 
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Fri, Feb 22, 2013 at 10:14 PM, Kevin Burton &lt; \\*
&gt;&gt; rkevinbur...@charter.net\\*&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt; That was my next question. I have tried to get basho\\_bench to work but so
&gt;&gt; far have been unsuccessful. If you have a simple "hello world" sample
&gt;&gt; config I would greatly appreciate it. I have tried a bunch of configs in
&gt;&gt; the examples directory but get met with one error or another.
&gt;&gt; Other than that I have just timed various client driver calls. Mostly
&gt;&gt; random reads some writes.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Feb 22, 2013, at 3:48 PM, Richard Shaw &lt; \\*rich...@basho.com\\*&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi Kevin,
&gt;&gt; What kind of benchmarking have you done on your VMs and what did you use
&gt;&gt; ?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Kind Regards
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Richard
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Fri, Feb 22, 2013 at 9:49 AM, Kevin Burton &lt; \\*rkevinbur...@charter.net
&gt;&gt; \\*&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt; Ok I suspected as much. This will give me more ammo when requesting more
&gt;&gt; resources. Thank you.
&gt;&gt; Now, back to the original question. Given that the physical hardware is
&gt;&gt; taken care of. What parameters are most important when tuning a cluster.
&gt;&gt; Again for arguments sake assume the same 4 node cluster with a read-write
&gt;&gt; ratio of about 75 percent.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Feb 21, 2013, at 8:26 PM, Alexander Sicular &lt; \\*sicul...@gmail.com\\*&gt;
&gt;&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; It can't be said enough times but the number one thing you can do to
&gt;&gt; ensure that you are getting true performance (not to mention redundancy) is
&gt;&gt; to use different physical hardware for each of your nodes. Under no
&gt;&gt; circumstances should you have more than one VM (one logical node in a Riak
&gt;&gt; cluster) on the same physical hardware. Also, use multiple
&gt;&gt; connections/threads/parallelism/whatever on client side and be sure to hit
&gt;&gt; all the nodes in the cluster haproxy roundrobin-esque when writing to Riak.
&gt;&gt; Everything else is in the noise.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; -Alexander Sicular
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; @siculars
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Feb 21, 2013, at 9:04 PM, Kevin Burton &lt; \\*rkevinbur...@charter.net\\*&gt;
&gt;&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; There each has about 20-30GB of disk space. They each are a VM so I am
&gt;&gt; not sure how to specify the CPU. They all seem to be 64 bit Intel
&gt;&gt; processors but I could tell you the clock speed. The network is 1Gb
&gt;&gt; Ethernet.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\*From: \\* Sean Carey [mailto: \\*carey@\\*\\*basho.com\\* ]
&gt;&gt; \\*Sent: \\* Thursday, February 21, 2013 7:59 PM
&gt;&gt; \\*To: \\* Kevin Burton
&gt;&gt; \\*Cc: \\* \\*riak-users@lists.basho.com\\*
&gt;&gt; \\*Subject: \\* Re: Tuning a Riak cluster.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Kevin,
&gt;&gt; Disk and CPU, and Network?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Sean Carey
&gt;&gt; @densone
&gt;&gt; On Thursday, February 21, 2013 at 20:31, Kevin Burton wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I have a cluster of 4 machines (4 Linux VM machines each allocated about
&gt;&gt; 1 Gb of memory – yea I know it isn’t a lot). I would like to get some
&gt;&gt; pointers on getting the fastest query time possible given these meager
&gt;&gt; resources. Thank you.
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; \\*riak-users@lists.basho.com\\*
&gt;&gt; \\*http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com\\*
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; \\*riak-users@lists.basho.com\\*
&gt;&gt; \\*http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com\\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; \\*riak-users@lists.basho.com\\*
&gt;&gt; \\*http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com\\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

