---
title: "Re: Yokozuna unpredictable result count"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-02-19T10:53:14-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15754"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15750"
author_name: "Zeeshan Lakhani"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-02-19T10:53:14-08:00
---


Ok. I’m guessing that you’re running a default cluster on one node. 

Did you attempt the read-repair I suggested earlier in the thread?

Also, you should try and get each node’s value for the bucket/key and see if 
they’re consistent. You can use 
https://github.com/basho/riak\\_kv/blob/d17409fdb934c076cca9e65a02818ad860fe310b/src/riak\\_kv\\_vnode.erl#L248
 

 via `riak attach` on each vnode to check each value. You can get active 
preflist for that bucket/key to help you get the index via 
https://github.com/binarytemple/riak\\_utils/blob/d59bd38e34b697b2b48b853b39ab1a51ab04111a/sparrows.preflist.getter.markdown
 
.
 That Preflist fun would take in an input like (&lt;&lt;“maps”&gt;&gt;, &lt;&lt;“albums”&gt;&gt;, 
&lt;&lt;“REM”&gt;&gt;).

Thanks.


&gt; On Feb 19, 2015, at 12:09 PM, Cezary Kosko  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; I can't recall right now, but it's safe to assume I did delete it.
&gt; 
&gt; As for nodes, I have added one, nothing more.
&gt; 
&gt; Kind regards,
&gt; Cezary
&gt; 
&gt; 2015-02-19 18:01 GMT+01:00 Zeeshan Lakhani  &gt;:
&gt; So, AAE is running.
&gt; 
&gt; Again, did you delete the single object at some point? Trying to see if this 
&gt; is related to you hitting a tombstone on queries. Also, when you added the 
&gt; object, did you add it and later leave (drop) a node from your cluster? 
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks.
&gt; 
&gt; Zeeshan Lakhani
&gt; programmer | 
&gt; software engineer at @basho | 
&gt; org. member/founder of @papers\\_we\\_love |
&gt; twitter =&gt; @zeeshanlakhani
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On Feb 19, 2015, at 11:53 AM, Cezary Kosko &gt; &gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; By './data/yz\\_anti\\_entropy' do you mean '/var/lib/riak/yz\\_anti\\_entropy' by 
&gt;&gt; default or './data/yz\\_anti\\_entropy' inside each index's directory? If the 
&gt;&gt; former - it's there, the latter - not. riak-admin search aae-status says 
&gt;&gt; there's been some AAE activity in the past few hours.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Also I called yz\\_entropy\\_mgr:init([]) inside an attached erlang shell and 
&gt;&gt; curl-ed the object, it's still the same.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Kind regards,
&gt;&gt; Cezary
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 2015-02-19 17:27 GMT+01:00 Zeeshan Lakhani &gt; &gt;:
&gt;&gt; Thanks Cezary. 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Have you deleted this object at some point in your runs? Please make sure 
&gt;&gt; AAE is running by checking search’s AAE status, `riak-admin search 
&gt;&gt; aae-status`, and that data exists in the correct directory, 
&gt;&gt; `./data/yz\\_anti\\_entropy` 
&gt;&gt; (http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/ops/advanced/configs/search/ 
&gt;&gt; ). You may 
&gt;&gt; just need to perform a read-repair by performing a fetch of the object 
&gt;&gt; itself first, before performing search queries again.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Zeeshan Lakhani
&gt;&gt; programmer | 
&gt;&gt; software engineer at @basho | 
&gt;&gt; org. member/founder of @papers\\_we\\_love |
&gt;&gt; twitter =&gt; @zeeshanlakhani
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; On Feb 19, 2015, at 10:35 AM, Cezary Kosko &gt;&gt; &gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; I have the exact same issue with regular http search queries, so I guess 
&gt;&gt;&gt; I'll just describe that part.
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; I've got a bucket of maps-of-sets, 2 of them are entityId\\_set and 
&gt;&gt;&gt; timestamps\\_set. Its search index is called 'job' and it's only this bucket 
&gt;&gt;&gt; that's indexed.
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; When I run
&gt;&gt;&gt; curl 
&gt;&gt;&gt; "localhost:8098/search/query/job?wt=json&q=entityId\\_set:100000000000000000%20AND%20timestamps\\_set:%5B1419721530%20TO%201419721539%5D"
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; (that's a query that is supposed to return exactly one result), the 
&gt;&gt;&gt; numFound field is either 0 or 1, it seems that I get both kinds of result 
&gt;&gt;&gt; in 10 consecutive requests (and the timeAllowed parameter I wrote about, it 
&gt;&gt;&gt; doesn't really help).
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; That's the way they're handled in the schema:
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; stored="false" multiValued="true" /&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; stored="false" multiValued="true" /&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Kind regards,
&gt;&gt;&gt; Cezary
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; 2015-02-19 16:04 GMT+01:00 Zeeshan Lakhani &gt;&gt; &gt;:
&gt;&gt;&gt; Hello Cezary,
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Firstly, are you able to retrieve your search result consistently when not 
&gt;&gt;&gt; using doing a mapreduce job? 
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; To better help out, can you send a gist of the mapreduce code you’re 
&gt;&gt;&gt; running? Thanks.
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; On Feb 18, 2015, at 9:13 PM, Cezary Kosko &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Hi,
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; I've got a search index, and I'd like to run mapred job against that 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; index. The thing is, for a search query that should return exactly one 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; result, I sometimes (not always, yet not rarely) get none, i.e. the mapred 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; job returns an empty list instead of, say, a list containing a single 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; object. Did this only happen some time after uploading the data and then 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; was consistently giving the right results, I wouldn't object. However, 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; it's kind of an on-and-off situation - I get proper results, but then for 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; a brief period of time I don't and so on.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; I've read on a solr doc page that specifying a timeAllowed parameter in 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; the query can give it longer to gather results and help, but that can't be 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; specified in a mapred definition, or can it?
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Is there anything else I can look for?
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; The data I'm querying is of the CRDT map-of-sets type, should that be of 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; any relevance.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Kind regards,
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Cezary
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

