---
title: "Re: yokozuna Issues"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-02-19T17:40:32-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13675"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13674"
author_name: "Bryce Verdier"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-02-19T17:40:32-08:00
---


Thank you Ryan for the explanation. That explains why it wasn't working 
on my fedora19 install but was working on my arch install.


Warm regards,
Bryce


On 02/19/2014 02:09 PM, Ryan Zezeski wrote:

Hello Bryce,

On Wed, Feb 19, 2014 at 3:27 PM, Bryce Verdier &gt; wrote:


 Hey Hector,

 Thank you for looking into this, here is the response to 'java
 -version' on my machine:
 java -version
 java version "1.7.0\\_51"
 OpenJDK Runtime Environment (fedora-2.4.5.0.fc19-x86\\_64 u51-b31)
 OpenJDK 64-Bit Server VM (build 24.51-b03, mixed mode)

 I've been meaning to try buiding from source to see if the problem
 cropped up again, just haven't had the time yet. (I noticed that I
 didn't have the same issue when I built from source on my
 archLinux desktop --2.0pre14 --. Not sure if its related, but I
 just wanted to make sure).


&gt; 2014-02-13 08:59:56.225 [info] 
&lt;0.547.0&gt;@yz\\_solr\\_proc:handle\\_info:134 solr stdout/err: Caused by: 
java.lang.UnsupportedClassVersionError: 
com/basho/yokozuna/monitor/Monitor : Unsupported major.minor version 52.0


This is saying that com.basho.yokozuna.monitor.Monitor was compiled
with J2SE1.8. That will not work with your 1.7 JRE. If you compile
from source then you won't have this issue.

The problem is that Yokozuna has some custom Solr handlers and they
are compiled independently for each separate official Riak builder we
have. In this case our Fedora builder has "javac 1.8.0-internal".

This is my fault. The importance of the compiling JDK and our builders
totally slipped my mind. Yokozuna needs to be changed so that we just
compile the JAR once and include it as part of the official build
process.

-Z



\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

