---
title: "Re: Cross-Compile Riak for Embedded Device"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2017-02-15T15:10:22-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg17990"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg17976"
author_name: "Jon Brisbin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2017-02-15T15:10:22-08:00
---


I've been playing with messaging and Raspberry Pis a lot the last couple of
weeks and it seems to work pretty well to use a couple message brokers like
Mosquitto MQTT or something lightweight and publish data to the broker
locally. A bridge configuration can make sure the messages get routed from
the device to a "real" broker somewhere that Riak is also running on in a
more traditional clustered configuration. An ingest script pulls data from
the broker and pushes it into Riak. This configuration is proving to be
extremely flexible because devices can come and go easily and setup and
dealing with Riak clustering is not an issue.

jb

On Tue, Feb 14, 2017 at 5:36 AM Stephen Etheridge 
wrote:

&gt; Darshan,
&gt;
&gt; Magnus has stolen my thunder and words! I agree that your use case, as
&gt; outlined by Magnus above, is not one Riak is aimed at. In fact, given you
&gt; want to persist data on an embedded device, are you sure you even want the
&gt; overhead of a "database"? There are the options Magnus mentioned above,
&gt; also you may want to look at:
&gt;
&gt; http://www.yaffs.net/fuel-embedded-database-use-yaffs
&gt; http://www.mcobject.com/emb
&gt;
&gt; I have not used either, but they may give you ideas.
&gt;
&gt; In my embedded/IoT work I have not used the embedded device as a
&gt; persistent store, I have buffered readings on the edge devices but I have
&gt; then, when a connection is made, sent them to processing hubs.
&gt;
&gt; Kind regards
&gt; Stephen
&gt;
&gt; On 14 February 2017 at 10:45, Magnus Kessler  wrote:
&gt;
&gt; On 13 February 2017 at 16:06, Darshan Shah  wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Our main usecase is to create a database in Embedded system to store value
&gt; received from one server.
&gt; For our usecase Key value based database is best suitable and we found
&gt; Riak is one of best for this.
&gt; So we want to cross compile Riak databse for Embedded system.
&gt;
&gt; On Fri, Feb 10, 2017, 3:46 PM Stephen Etheridge 
&gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Darshan,
&gt;
&gt; Perhaps if you gave some more details of what you are trying to do I might
&gt; be able to help further?
&gt;
&gt; Stephen
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Hi Darshan,
&gt;
&gt; If I understand you correctly, your embedded devices will locally store
&gt; data and will communicate with a central server, but not other peer
&gt; devices. Riak's strength lies in being a centralised distributed database
&gt; optimised for dealing with very large data sets. Riak installations
&gt; typically distribute the data set over a small(-ish) number of nodes to
&gt; achieve high availability and resilience.
&gt;
&gt; In your use case I expect there to be a large number of embedded devices,
&gt; each responsible for a small amount of data. This is not a good fit for
&gt; Riak.
&gt;
&gt; A quick search shows embeddable key-value stores, such as RocksDB [0],
&gt; unqlite [1], and others (\\*), which you could use to store data locally in
&gt; your embedded devices. If you'd like to use Riak on the central server, I'd
&gt; recommend using one of the Riak client libraries [2] to transfer data
&gt; between the central server and your devices.
&gt;
&gt; Kind Regards,
&gt;
&gt; Magnus
&gt;
&gt; (\\*) The quoted embeddable DBs are examples only. I haven't personally used
&gt; them yet, and can't vouch for their suitability for your project.
&gt;
&gt; [0]: http://rocksdb.org
&gt; [1]: http://unqlite.org
&gt; [2]: https://docs.basho.com/riak/kv/2.2.0/developing/client-libraries/
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Magnus Kessler
&gt; Client Services Engineer
&gt; Basho Technologies Limited
&gt;
&gt; Registered Office - 8 Lincoln’s Inn Fields London WC2A 3BP Reg 07970431
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; { "name" : "Stephen Etheridge",
&gt; "title" : "Solution Architect, EMEA",
&gt; "Organisation" : "Basho Technologies, Inc",
&gt; "Telephone" : "07814 406662",
&gt; "email" : "mailto:setheri...@basho.com",
&gt; "github" : "http://github.com/datalemming",
&gt; "twitter" : "@datalemming"}
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

