---
title: "Re: Question regarding support for images"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-03-06T17:17:22-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10342"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg10341"
author_name: "Bryan Hughes"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-03-06T17:17:22-08:00
---



Hi Matthew,

Right now we are storing images captured from mobile phones in Riak. So 
far it works really well as the image sizes range from a few hundred K 
to a few MB. But, as camera resolutions increase, so does the data 
size, plus, users are actually interested in the higher resolution 
images if they decide to print them.


I am hoping to understand is the largest "chunk" size that a binary 
value should have and whether or not leveldb would be better or worse 
than bitcask. For example, if it is as Mark suggested where the optimal 
size would be 10MB, that would mean that we would be chunking a 50MB 
binary object into 5 concurrent writes. For us, this is actually a very 
good solution since our platform does not actually operate on any of the 
data it is persisting and can achieve the scale necessary.


A little bit of background - we have developed a novel message queue 
architecture/platform in Erlang that is optimized for mobile devices 
that is currently in private beta (will be opening it up to a public 
beta around the end of March). We provide an SDK that allows mobile 
developers access to light weight services running on our platform that 
gives instant group collaboration functionality ranging from 
group/device discovery, group formation and management, to real-time 
chat (feature set is actually pretty comprehensive). The SDK allows 
developers to drop our service into any existing or new project with 
just a few lines of code, which means that the binary data will be 
whatever the developer decides to push along the wire, from images to 
audio to even video clips.


If you are interested, here is a link to our docs: 
http://developer.go-factory.net/


Also note, I understand that the larger the data size, the more 
on-the-wire cost within the cluster, for example if the data size is 
10MB, with n\\_val of 3, that is 30MB on the wire for each chunk, and with 
5 chunks, that comes out to 150MB. For us that is less of an issue as 
we host our own service on dedicated dual ported gigabit hardware 
co-located at two major data centers.


Does this help?

Cheers,
Bryan


On 3/6/13 4:14 PM, Matthew Von-Maszewski wrote:
Just curious, what is the typical size and the overall range of sizes 
for your image data?


Matthew

On Mar 6, 2013, at 6:08 PM, Bryan Hughes &gt; wrote:



Hi Everyone,

I am building a new 5 node cluster with 1.3.0 and am transitioning 
from Bitcask to LevelDB (or perhaps a Mulit with LevelDB being the 
main) which is all well understood. My question is regarding image 
data, and other large binary data: Is one better than the other in 
terms of the size of binary data that can be stored, as well as 
performance of reads? I recall Mark suggesting to limit binary data 
to 10MB.


I am curious where this limitation comes from?

Thanks,
Bryan

--

Bryan Hughes
\\*Go Factory\\*
http://www.go-factory.net

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com 
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com




--

Bryan Hughes
CTO and Founder / \\*Go Factory\\*
(415) 515-7916
http://www.go-factory.net

/"Art is never finished, only abandoned. - Leonardo da Vinci"/


\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

