---
title: "Re: Change Capture out of Riak"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-04-02T14:51:12-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13978"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13966"
author_name: "Istvan Soos"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-04-02T14:51:12-07:00
---


&gt; Is anyone doing Change Capture (like the Databus project from LinkedIn)
&gt; directly out of Riak? Right now I have something hacked up using
&gt; Ripple+ActiveModel::Dirty, but I'd like to divorce it from our app
&gt; completely if possible. Was thinking a post-commit hook might work? End
&gt; goal is to feed it to a logging backend (in the Kafka sense of the word)
&gt; for other systems to feed off of.
&gt;
&gt; I'd love any pointers you might have to past posts I've missed (tried
&gt; searching the archive but came up dry), code, ideas, "tried it and it was a
&gt; pain", "that's a stupid idea", etc.

I was thinking about a similar idea, but I haven't followed it through
yet. It is certainly harder than it looks, especially on the question
of how to handle backpressure or what kind of guarantees are you able
to satisfy.

A queue semantics might work for my use case, where the event broker
app receives events, stores them in Riak and passes them on to other
clients or brokers. This could work if none of them is interested in
event ordering or past events (e.g. if events are immutable change
events, there is a client-side conflict resolution, and there is a
separate place to store the latest known/accepted state for each
object).

It would be interesting to hear what others have achieved.

Istvan

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

