---
title: "Re: putObjectPolicy fails due to wrong Content-Type"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-03-13T10:39:36-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15896"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15893"
author_name: "Matthew Brender"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-03-13T10:39:36-07:00
---


Hi Patrick,

You'll need to investigate whether you can define a content type through
the SDK. The use of application/octet-stream is defined as "arbitrary
binary data" in RFC 2046 as explained well here [1]. I'm not sure if you
have the ability to define the content type and have not done so or whether
the SDK is at fault.

[1]
http://stackoverflow.com/questions/20508788/do-i-need-content-type-application-octet-stream-for-file-download
ᐧ

\\*Matt Brender | Developer Advocacy Lead\\*
Basho Technologies
t: @mjbrender 
c: +1 617.817.3195

On Fri, Mar 13, 2015 at 10:52 AM, Patrick F. Marques &lt;
patrickfmarq...@gmail.com&gt; wrote:

&gt; Just the link to the issue https://github.com/basho/riak\\_cs/issues/1091
&gt;
&gt; @Mathew do you know if AWS NodeJS SDK is doing it wrong so I can also open
&gt; an issue on amazon repo?
&gt;
&gt; On Fri, Mar 13, 2015 at 2:41 PM, Matthew Brender 
&gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi Patrick,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I'm glad you figured out the root cause here. You bring up a great
&gt;&gt; opportunity to improve on error responses too. Please open a GitHub issue
&gt;&gt; for this and any similar observations so PM can keep track of it.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt; Matt
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; ᐧ
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\*Matt Brender | Developer Advocacy Lead\\*
&gt;&gt; Basho Technologies
&gt;&gt; t: @mjbrender 
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Wed, Mar 11, 2015 at 2:32 PM, Patrick F. Marques &lt;
&gt;&gt; patrickfmarq...@gmail.com&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Hi,
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Hi, I'm trying to use node-aws-sdk to set bucket policies but the SDK
&gt;&gt;&gt; sends the request with the wrong Content-Type, "application/octet-stream".
&gt;&gt;&gt; I'm not sure if there is something wrong on my side or if AWS S3 also
&gt;&gt;&gt; supports this since it is its SDK.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; To find the problem I was digging in the SDK code because the server
&gt;&gt;&gt; response is just a 500 Internal Server Error. It could be nice to return at
&gt;&gt;&gt; least something like "Unaccepted Content-Type in request".
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Regards,
&gt;&gt;&gt; Patrick Marques
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

