---
title: "Re: is it possible to use FQDN instead of IP in riak.conf for \"listener.http.$name” field?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-07-22T10:04:54-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16308"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16305"
author_name: "Nick Marino"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-07-22T10:04:54-07:00
---


Hi Roman,

I took a quick look at the riak\\_api code, and unfortunately it doesn't look
like there's an easy way to do this right now. The code assumes you'll
enter an IP address, and there's no place where it would attempt to resolve
a hostname if you passed that in instead.

That said, this does seem like it would be a nice feature to have, and
probably shouldn't be terribly difficult to implement. If you have a GitHub
account you could try logging a feature request under the issues section
for the riak\\_api project (https://github.com/basho/riak\\_api). I can't make
any guarantees as to whether/when anyone will have time to look into it,
but hopefully it's something that could be done in the short to medium
term. If you don't have a GitHub account and would like me to enter this
for you, send me an email and I can get a request filed.

In the mean time, your best bet is probably to write a script to
automatically regenerate your config file with the correct IP addresses as
needed. Not the prettiest solution, but unfortunately that's the best
suggestion I have for the time being.

Thanks,
Nick

On Mon, Jul 20, 2015 at 4:48 PM, ROMAN SHESTAKOV  wrote:

&gt;
&gt; Hello,
&gt;
&gt; is there any way to specify in riak.conf in field "listener.http.$name”
&gt; FQDN instead of IP address?
&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;listener.http.$name This is the IP address and TCP port to which the
&gt; Riak HTTP interface will bind. {"127.0.0.1",8098}&lt;&lt;&lt;
&gt;
&gt; why is it required to use IP address instead of a host name? In my setting
&gt; RIAK\\_KV is deployed on dynamic VMs and IP could be changed if the VM is
&gt; launched on a different hypervisor.
&gt;
&gt; Regards, Roman
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

