---
title: "Re: http access to Riak objects"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-07-03T10:01:28-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11397"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg11395"
author_name: "Hector Castro"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-07-03T10:01:28-07:00
---


Sanjeev,

Is your goal to have the resource be accessible via query string
authentication, or just publicly accessible? Asking because your
example URL contains the query string authentication parameters.

http://docs.basho.com/riakcs/latest/cookbooks/Authentication/#Query-String-Authentication

Either way, I attempted to reproduce your steps locally and could
download the file from CS via curl. Can you take a look and see if I
did anything differently?

https://gist.github.com/hectcastro/5920366

--
Hector


On Wed, Jul 3, 2013 at 2:41 AM, Sanjeev Neelarapu
 wrote:
&gt; Thanks Alex for your quick response.
&gt;
&gt; I have made the object as public as per your instructions:
&gt;
&gt; [root@Rhel63-Sanjeev ~]# s3cmd setacl -P
&gt; s3://imagestore/template/tmpl/1/5/centos56-x86\\_64-xen/centos56-x86\\_64.vhd.bz2
&gt;
&gt; s3://imagestore/template/tmpl/1/5/centos56-x86\\_64-xen/centos56-x86\\_64.vhd.bz2:
&gt; ACL set to Public [1 of 1]
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; However downloading this object still says “Access Denied”. URL being fired
&gt; is:
&gt;
&gt; http://10.147.29.57:8080/imagestore/template/tmpl/1/5/centos56-x86\\_64-xen/centos56-x86\\_64.vhd.bz2?Expires=1372856948&AWSAccessKeyId=9M7I6JPYZHDNLG43TWCD&Signature=fQNuyFYMnNdLwv64XTj+WsC2U7s=
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt;
&gt; Sanjeev
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; From: Alexander Moore [mailto:moore.a...@gmail.com]
&gt; Sent: Tuesday, July 02, 2013 7:20 PM
&gt; To: Sanjeev Neelarapu
&gt; Cc: riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; Subject: Re: http access to Riak objects
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Hi Sanjeev,
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; By default, uploaded objects will not be publicly available. To make them
&gt; available you have to set the Access Control List to allow public reads for
&gt; all users.
&gt;
&gt; If you are using s3cmd you can do this with: s3cmd -c .s3cfgfile setacl
&gt; --acl-public s3://BUCKET/OBJECT
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; If you need to do this for everything in a bucket, you should then look into
&gt; using "Bucket Policies" to automatically set public access.
&gt;
&gt; Your bucket policy would look something like
&gt; https://gist.github.com/alexmoore/5909408, and then you could apply the
&gt; policy using s3cmd: s3cmd -c .s3cfg setpolicy
&gt; public-access-bucket-policy.json s3://BUCKET
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt;
&gt; Alex
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Tue, Jul 2, 2013 at 8:32 AM, Sanjeev Neelarapu
&gt;  wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Hi,
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Could someone help me in providing http access to objects stored in the
&gt; bucket?
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; I have Riak and Riak-CS installed on a linux machine. Created bucket and
&gt; pushed some files to the bucket using s3cmd. However downloading the objects
&gt; using http URL is failing.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Following is the object path stored in the bucket “imagestore”:
&gt;
&gt; s3://imagestore/template/tmpl/1/5/centos56-x86\\_64-xen/centos56-x86\\_64.vhd.bz2
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Could anyone specify the way to download it using http access?
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; ACL on the bucket:
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; [root@Rhel63-Sanjeev ~]# s3cmd info s3://imagestore
&gt;
&gt; s3://imagestore/ (bucket):
&gt;
&gt; Location: us-east-1
&gt;
&gt; ACL: admin: FULL\\_CONTROL
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt;
&gt; Sanjeev
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

