---
title: "Re: What happens when a node goes down?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-03-24T10:58:38-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13907"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13908"
author_name: "Jeff Peck"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-03-24T10:58:38-07:00
---


Aha, so if a node is detected to go down, but the cluster is not currently 
receiving any requests (i.e. on a development cluster that is used to store 
data that is only requested periodically or in batches, etc.) then there would 
not be any increased I/O unless it is manually ("administratively") removed?

- Jeff



On Mar 24, 2014, at 1:53 PM, Seth Thomas  wrote:

&gt; As immediately as the cluster can detect the node is no longer serving 
&gt; requests[1]. There will likely be increased network and IO among the 
&gt; remaining nodes as they will be picking up the slack. That said, the data is 
&gt; not permanently reshuffled at that point - only such time as it is 
&gt; administratively removed. The degree to which you’d see a spike depends on 
&gt; the volume of objects, # of physical nodes, and # of partitions/vnodes.
&gt; 
&gt; [1] 
&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/theory/concepts/Replication/#Processing-partition-requests
&gt; 
&gt; On March 24, 2014 at 10:43:36, Jeff Peck (je...@tnrglobal.com) wrote:
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Does that happen immediately? I am basically trying to understand: When a 
&gt;&gt; physical node goes down (let's say it is temporarily restarted, or down for 
&gt;&gt; even a couple hours due to some sort of failure), will that cause an 
&gt;&gt; increase in disk and network bandwidth at the moment that it goes down as 
&gt;&gt; data is re-shuffled across the cluster?
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt; Jeff
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On Mar 24, 2014, at 1:38 PM, Seth Thomas  wrote:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Data is redistributed temporarily (indefinitely) until the primary node 
&gt;&gt;&gt; comes back online. So primary ownership of data would not be changed but 
&gt;&gt;&gt; your keys could be living on another physical node if any of the primary 
&gt;&gt;&gt; replicas were down.
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; So to answer your question directly: Yes (in the narrowest definition)
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; On March 24, 2014 at 10:34:22, Jeff Peck (je...@tnrglobal.com) wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Thank you. So, does that mean that no redistribution of data would occur 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; unless the node is manually removed?
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; - Jeff
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; On Mar 24, 2014, at 1:31 PM, Seth Thomas  wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Jeff,
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; When a node is no longer responding a process called hinted handoff[1] 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; takes over and ensure that your N (replication) value is met by allowing 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; other nodes to temporarily take responsibility for the vnodes of the 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; downed node. This node can return to the cluster and will resume 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; operations for the vnodes it’s primarily responsible for or you could 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; remove the node[2] from the cluster which would redistribute the primary 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; responsibly among the remaining nodes. I’d also give our docs on 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; replication[3] a look for more information.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Seth Thomas
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; [1] 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/theory/concepts/glossary/#Hinted-Handoff
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; [2] 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/ops/running/nodes/adding-removing/#Removing-a-Node-From-a-Cluster
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; [3] http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/theory/concepts/Replication/
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; On March 24, 2014 at 9:33:17, Jeff Peck (je...@tnrglobal.com) wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Is there a description of what happens internally when a node goes down? 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; I am curious if any there would be any sort of reshuffling or 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; redistribution of data in the remaining vnodes? Or would the node simply 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; be unavailable until restarted? 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Thanks, 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Jeff 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_ 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

