---
title: "Re: Counters inside Maps"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-08-19T15:26:38-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14747"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14746"
author_name: "Sean Cribbs"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-08-19T15:26:38-07:00
---


Alex,

Assuming you've already made your bucket-type with "map" as the
datatype, then "bucket.new()" will return you a Map instead of a
RiakObject. Translating your example above:

key = bucket.new('lionelmessi')
key.registers['name'].assign('Messi')
key.registers['team'].assign('Barcelona')
key.counters['number'].increment(10)
key.store()

Note that because Maps are based on mutation operations and not
replacing the value with new ones, you can later do this without
setting the entire value:

key.counters['number'].increment(1)
key.store()

This will also change your searches, however, in that the fields will
be suffixed with the embedded type you are using:

r = client.fulltext\\_search('ix\\_footballers', 'team\\_register:Barcelona')

Hope that helps!

On Tue, Aug 19, 2014 at 2:59 PM, Alex De la rosa
 wrote:
&gt; Imagine I have a Riak object "footballer" with some static fields: name,
&gt; team, number. I store them like this now:
&gt;
&gt; 1: CREATE INDEX FOR RIAK SEARCH
&gt; curl -XPUT "http://148.251.140.229:8098/search/index/ix\\_footballers"
&gt;
&gt; 2: CREATE BUCKET TYPE
&gt; riak-admin bucket-type create tp\\_footballers
&gt; '{"props":{"allow\\_mult":false,"search\\_index":"ix\\_footballers"}}'
&gt; riak-admin bucket-type activate tp\\_footballers
&gt;
&gt; 3: INSERT A PLAYER
&gt; bucket = client.bucket\\_type('tp\\_footballers').bucket('footballers')
&gt; key = bucket.new('lionelmessi', data={'name\\_s':'Messi',
&gt; 'team\\_s':'Barcelona', 'number\\_i':10}, content\\_type='application/json')
&gt; key.store()
&gt;
&gt; 4: SEARCH FOR BARCELONA PLAYERS
&gt; r = client.fulltext\\_search('ix\\_footballers', 'team\\_s:Barcelona')
&gt;
&gt; So far so good :) BUT... what if I want to have a field "goals\\_i" that is a
&gt; counter that will be incremented each match day with the number of goals he
&gt; scored? What is the syntax/steps to do to set up "footballers" as a MAP and
&gt; then put a COUNTER inside? I know is possible as I read it in some data dump
&gt; some Basho employee passed me some time ago, but I can't manage to see how
&gt; to do it now.
&gt;
&gt; Thanks!
&gt; Alex
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;



-- 
Sean Cribbs 
Software Engineer
Basho Technologies, Inc.
http://basho.com/

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

