---
title: "Re: Getting key of the map in erlang"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2016-04-29T08:31:16-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg17266"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg17265"
author_name: "Magnus Kessler"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2016-04-29T08:31:16-07:00
---


On 28 April 2016 at 17:02, Sanket Agrawal  wrote:

&gt; Not sure if this has been asked before - given a map, how does one go
&gt; about retrieving the key of the map?
&gt;
&gt; For example, in Riak example for map
&gt; , a map
&gt; is created with "ahmed\\_info" key.
&gt;
&gt; If we were to write a commit hook in Erlang where we want to do some kind
&gt; of action based on the key, it will be helpful to have a way to extract the
&gt; key.
&gt;
&gt; I looked in basho erlang client documentation here for map, but don't see
&gt; any function to extract the key. Perhaps we have to do pattern match to
&gt; extract the key?
&gt; http://basho.github.io/riak-erlang-client/riakc\\_map.html
&gt;
&gt; I also see erlang libraries under riak installation (one of them
&gt; "riak\\_object" is called in "commit hook" example in documentation) - I can
&gt; check there as well if there is online documentation somewhere for them.
&gt;
&gt; I am thinking of storing user info as immutable maps, something like
&gt; \\_\\_, and have an erlang commit hook that updates
&gt; \\_\\_ map with the latest entry. For that, we need to
&gt; extract the map key.
&gt;
&gt;
Hi Sanket,

The actual association between an Erlang CRDT object and a bucket-type,
bucket, and key has to be done separately from creating the object itself.
Please have a look at the "counters" example on the same page.

I agree that this could be documented better and have mentioned your
question to our documentations team.

Kind Regards,

Magnus

-- 
Magnus Kessler
Client Services Engineer
Basho Technologies Limited

Registered Office - 8 Lincoln’s Inn Fields London WC2A 3BP Reg 07970431
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

