---
title: "Re: cluster health check using riak-java-client"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-12-08T13:11:09-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16856"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16855"
author_name: "Alexander Sicular"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-12-08T13:11:09-08:00
---


Besides just plainly writing a key, you could also do something like (pseudo 
code):

Riak.put(canaryKey, pw=n\\_val){
 If ok -&gt; cool!
 If borked -&gt; sad face 
}

The important bit is the pw (primary write) equals your replication value. This 
means that all copies in the virtual node replica set need to go to virtual 
nodes allocated to their primary physical machines. This is a way you can check 
cluster status from the app level as in , is the cluster in some kind of borked 
state. 

-Alexander 

@siculars
http://siculars.posthaven.com

Sent from my iRotaryPhone

&gt; On Dec 8, 2015, at 14:13, David Byron  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; I'm still curious what people think here. As I stare at this longer, I'd 
&gt; like to be able to call RiakNode.checkHealth(), but it's private.
&gt; 
&gt; HealthMonitorTask.run that only calls checkHealth some of the time, so 
&gt; without the ability to call it directly, I think I'm getting a stale notion 
&gt; of health in circumstances like I outlined below -- when the last operation 
&gt; was successful, but the node has since gone down.
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks for your input.
&gt; 
&gt; -DB
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On 12/2/15 10:25 PM, David Byron wrote:
&gt;&gt; I'm implementing a health check for a service of mine that uses riak.
&gt;&gt; I've seen this code from
&gt;&gt; https://github.com/basho/riak-java-client/issues/456:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; RiakCluster cluster = clientInstance.getRiakCluster();
&gt;&gt; List nodes = cluster.getNodes();
&gt;&gt; for (RiakNode node : nodes)
&gt;&gt; {
&gt;&gt; State state = node.getNodeState();
&gt;&gt; }
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; and it's great. From what I can tell, it depends on some background
&gt;&gt; processing that keeps track of the state of the nodes. I did a quick
&gt;&gt; test though, and if I run 'riak stop' from the command line and then
&gt;&gt; this loop with no intervening operations, the nodes report RUNNING. Even
&gt;&gt; after some time passes (more than three minutes), still RUNNING.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; However, if I run do run an intervening operation (some actual query of
&gt;&gt; data for example) that fails, the nodes then report HEALTH\\_CHECKING.
&gt;&gt; Then, after 'riak start', the nodes report RUNNING again. I suppose
&gt;&gt; that's good.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; So, I'm trying to decide how to implement the health check. The above
&gt;&gt; loop doesn't seem to be enough, but do I really need to do something like:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; final RiakFuture future = cluster.execute(new PingOperation());
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; try {
&gt;&gt; future.await();
&gt;&gt; future.get();
&gt;&gt; } catch (ExecutionException | InterruptedException e) {
&gt;&gt; // bad
&gt;&gt; }
&gt;&gt; // good
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Maybe it's sufficient to only do this if all the nodes report RUNNING? I
&gt;&gt; suppose there's always a small window in time where a node could report
&gt;&gt; bad, but via a ping I'd learn it was up...so I'm torn. Any suggestions
&gt;&gt; for whether pinging every time is correct, or there's something more
&gt;&gt; efficient (and safe)?
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Thanks for your help.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; -DB
&gt; 
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

