---
title: "Re: [ANN] Yokozuna 0.11.0"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-11-08T21:40:46-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12919"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12872"
author_name: "Ryan Zezeski"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-11-08T21:40:46-08:00
---


As promised here is documentation on how to use the new security features
with Yokozuna. Unfortunately, I also found a bug while making this document
so not everything will work as described until the next release.
Essentially the HTTP search authorization will always fail since it's
checking against the schema resource type rather than the index resource
(but protocol buffers should work). Also, some of the terminology used in
this document may change in the next few months as we polish things.

https://github.com/basho/yokozuna/blob/develop/docs/SECURITY.md

-Z


On Thu, Nov 7, 2013 at 9:29 AM, Ryan Zezeski  wrote:

&gt; Riak Users,
&gt;
&gt; Today I'm happy to announce the 0.11.0 release of Yokozuna.
&gt;
&gt; This release brings Riak Java Client support as well as
&gt; authentication and security for the HTTP and protocol buffer
&gt; transports. An access control list (ACL) may be created to
&gt; control administration and access to indexes. All official Riak
&gt; clients should now have full support for Yokozuna's
&gt; administration and search API. Stored boolean fields and tagging
&gt; support were fixed for the protocol buffer transport. And
&gt; finally, documentation was added. The new CONCEPTS document [1]
&gt; goes over various important concepts in Yokozuna and the
&gt; RESOURCES document [2] has links to other resources for
&gt; learning. There isn't much documentation on specifically how to
&gt; use the new security features besides in the pull request itself
&gt; but I will rectify that soon with a security specific doc page.
&gt;
&gt; This release may confuse some people given that the Riak 2.0 Tech
&gt; Preview (2.0.0pre5) [3] was just released last week. Why continue
&gt; with separate Yokozuna releases? What is the difference? These
&gt; questions are answered in the INSTALL document [4], but the short
&gt; story is that Yokozuna runs on a monthly release cycle and
&gt; therefore out paces official Riak releases. These monthly releases
&gt; allow you to try the latest Yokozuna features and bug fixes
&gt; without waiting for the next Riak release. These releases should
&gt; never be used for production. See the INSTALL document for more
&gt; information.
&gt;
&gt; In summary: If you need to test the latest features then use the
&gt; Riak-Yokozuna source package. Otherwise just stick to the tech
&gt; preview until the final Riak 2.0 package drops.
&gt;
&gt; Finally, the only feature in Riak-Yokozuna 0.11.0 not found in
&gt; Riak 2.0.0pre5 is the security feature. See the release notes and
&gt; install document for more details.
&gt;
&gt; https://github.com/basho/yokozuna/blob/develop/docs/RELEASE\\_NOTES.md#0110
&gt;
&gt; https://github.com/basho/yokozuna/blob/develop/docs/INSTALL.md
&gt;
&gt; -Z
&gt;
&gt; [1]: https://github.com/basho/yokozuna/blob/develop/docs/CONCEPTS.md
&gt;
&gt; [2]: https://github.com/basho/yokozuna/blob/develop/docs/RESOURCES.md
&gt;
&gt; [3]: http://docs.basho.com/riak/2.0.0pre5/downloads/
&gt;
&gt; [4]: https://github.com/basho/yokozuna/blob/develop/docs/INSTALL.md
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

