---
title: "Re: Riak Search 2.0"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-03-21T09:25:43-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13867"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13866"
author_name: "Eric Redmond"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-03-21T09:25:43-07:00
---


Yes, you enable riak search 2.0 by setting search=on.

There's a lot of useful information in the search documentation.

http://docs.basho.com/riak/2.0.0pre11/dev/using/search/

Eric


On Mar 21, 2014, at 9:21 AM, "Sapre, Meghna A"  wrote:

&gt; Thanks, Riak version gives me 2.0.0pre11.
&gt; I changed the riak.conf for setting storage backend=leveldb and search=on.
&gt; I don’t see a separate setting for yokozuna, should it be there?
&gt; I was under the assumption (from reading the docs) that 2.0 comes with 
&gt; yokozuna, is that the case, or is it something I need to install separately?
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; Meghna
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; From: Eric Redmond [mailto:eredm...@basho.com] 
&gt; Sent: Friday, March 21, 2014 8:53 AM
&gt; To: Sapre, Meghna A
&gt; Cc: Michael Dillon; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; Subject: Re: Riak Search 2.0
&gt; 
&gt; Searching that version list is not generally useful if you just want the 
&gt; version of the Riak node you're running. Try running "riak version".
&gt; 
&gt; As for "Riak Search 2.0", the project that makes it work is called "yokozuna".
&gt; 
&gt; Eric
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Mar 20, 2014, at 5:24 PM, "Sapre, Meghna A"  
&gt; wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks, seems to be a mix. Riak\\_search\\_version is ‘1.4.1-19’, is there 2.0 
&gt; version for this? If so, how do I get it?
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; Meghna
&gt; 
&gt; From: Michael Dillon [mailto:mdillon...@pagefreezer.com] 
&gt; Sent: Thursday, March 20, 2014 4:25 PM
&gt; To: Sapre, Meghna A
&gt; Subject: Re: Riak Search 2.0
&gt; 
&gt; Try using riak-admin status |grep version |less
&gt; 
&gt; and you will see that there are lots of components at different version 
&gt; levels. I am running 2.0pre11 and have 1.4.2-456-ge1f5d39 for the kv 
&gt; component.
&gt; 
&gt; riak is not one application. It is a suite of applications that work together 
&gt; to provide and overall service.
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Thu, Mar 20, 2014 at 2:28 PM, Sapre, Meghna A  
&gt; wrote:
&gt; Hi all,
&gt; I recently inherited a Riak dB, so my questions are probably very basic.
&gt; The ones I ask are the ones I couldn't find answers to in the docs or online.
&gt; 
&gt; 1. When I run 'riak-admin status | grep riak\\_kv\\_version', it shows 'riak 
&gt; 1.4.2'.
&gt; The person who had originally done the installation said it was the 2.0 
&gt; pre-release version, am I checking the right thing?
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; Meghna
&gt; 
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; --
&gt; Michael Dillon - Senior Software Engineer
&gt; PageFreezer.com
&gt; #200 - 311 Water Street
&gt; Vancouver, BC V6B 1B8
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

