---
title: "Re: A story about unexpected changes in riak-erlang-client	dependencies"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-04-09T09:08:23-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10800"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg10798"
author_name: "Jared Morrow"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-04-09T09:08:23-07:00
---


In regards to 3rd parties, we've generally had good luck asking the
developer to make a tag for us or to merge a branch that has fixed
dependencies. I do agree it is a problem, but it is one that can be fixed.

Sorry you ran into problems in any of our repos, we are working to fix our
process a bit so folks using our code don't hit the problems you hit.

-Jared

On Tue, Apr 9, 2013 at 9:44 AM, Yuri Lukyanov  wrote:

&gt; Glad to hear you are moving away from master dependencies. Would be
&gt; great if all of us follow this way. It's sad that even if you
&gt; completely sorted out your own deps and rebar.conig's, it does not
&gt; solve the problem in general. You may still want to use third-party
&gt; deps which are not necessary good in terms of dependency management
&gt; policy. And you end up forking those projects for one reason only: to
&gt; fix their rebar.config's and create tags. Not mentioning the headache
&gt; when you want to update your forked versions with newer versions from
&gt; original repositories...
&gt;
&gt; Looks like we are far away from the perfect dependency world :)
&gt;
&gt; On Tue, Apr 9, 2013 at 7:15 PM, Reid Draper  wrote:
&gt; &gt; Yuri,
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; You're certainly not the only one dealing with this. Sorry about that.
&gt; It's bit us here at Basho a few times too. As you saw, we're moving toward
&gt; not having master dependencies, at least for tagged versions of repos.
&gt; Especially for projects that are likely to be dependencies in other
&gt; projects (ie. our client libraries, lager, etc.). That being said, it will
&gt; take us some time to get there. You should also be aware of another 'fun'
&gt; issue with rebar: if multiple dependencies require the same dep, the
&gt; version that rebar first encounters will be the one that gets used. You'll
&gt; find it helpful to use `./rebar list-deps` to see exactly what's being used
&gt; in your project. I agree that this is something the Erlang community could
&gt; improve, but in the short-term we're going to be more diligent about using
&gt; recursively using tags for all tagged repos.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Reid
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

