---
title: "Re: Change data directory"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-04-04T12:59:53-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14004"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14003"
author_name: "Jordan West"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-04-04T12:59:53-07:00
---


Hey Nabil,

Riak is having trouble finding or creating the ring directory. From your
logs:

2014-04-04 15:44:41.655 [critical] &lt;0.147.0&gt;@riak\\_core\\_app:start:54 Ring
state directory "/home/nabil/riak/ring" does not exist, and could not be
created: "permission denied"

Jordan


On Fri, Apr 4, 2014 at 12:55 PM, Nabil Hassein  wrote:

&gt; Thanks very much for your prompt replies. I am using the bitcask backend.
&gt; For now I am just trying to use /home/nabil/riak as the directory as I test
&gt; this out on my development machine, although naturally that is not the
&gt; ultimate destination we have in mind for our production servers.
&gt;
&gt; I have changed all of the paths quite similarly to the linked gist. There
&gt; are indeed errors in the Riak logs; I've pasted them here:
&gt; http://pastebin.com/tQer69eJ
&gt;
&gt; As you can see many of them appear to related to file permissions, but
&gt; like I said I've chowned the directory to the riak user and group:
&gt;
&gt; [nabil@localhost riak]$ pwd
&gt; /home/nabil/riak
&gt; [nabil@localhost riak]$ ls -latrR .
&gt; .:
&gt; total 8
&gt; drwxrwxr-x. 2 riak riak 4096 Apr 4 11:59 .
&gt; drwx------. 62 nabil nabil 4096 Apr 4 15:51 ..
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Any additional advice you can give would be much appreciated. Thanks again
&gt; for what you've already told me.
&gt;
&gt; Nabil
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Fri, Apr 4, 2014 at 3:15 PM, Jordan West  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; https://gist.github.com/jrwest/a37e3fff5917f0bd44eb is a recent
&gt;&gt; app.config I used on a 1.4.x cluster w/ CentOS. Look at the paths that
&gt;&gt; start w/ "/data/riak". If you're still having issues, or you have changed
&gt;&gt; all the paths: are there any errors in the Riak logs?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Cheers,
&gt;&gt; Jordan
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Fri, Apr 4, 2014 at 12:05 PM, Nabil Hassein wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Hello all,
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; I'm trying to change /etc/riak/app.config to store data in a directory
&gt;&gt;&gt; of my choosing rather than the default one. Simply changing
&gt;&gt;&gt; platform\\_data\\_dir to another directory yields errors, even after a `chown
&gt;&gt;&gt; -R riak:riak` of the relevant directory; the service starts but any
&gt;&gt;&gt; attempts to use the REST API yield 500 Internal Server Errors. Trying to
&gt;&gt;&gt; change other things, such as the ring\\_state\\_dir, generally results in riak
&gt;&gt;&gt; failing to start at all.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Does anyone have an example configuration where data is stored in a
&gt;&gt;&gt; different directory to the defaults, or advice about where I might be going
&gt;&gt;&gt; wrong?
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; I'm using a binary install of riak 1.4.8 on CentOS, if that's relevant.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt;&gt; Nabil
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

