---
title: "Re: question about java client"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-07-30T11:19:10-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11815"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg11814"
author_name: "Brian Roach"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-07-30T11:19:10-07:00
---


Paul,

I'm not quite sure I understand what you're asking.

If you do a fetch and have siblings each one is converted to your
domain object using the Converter and then passed as a Collection to
the ConflictResolver. Each sibling is going to include its links
and/or indexes as long as the Converter is injecting them into the
domain object and you can resolve them in the ConflictResolver.

The default JSONConverter, for example, injects them into your domain
object via annotations from the com.basho.riak.client.convert[1]
package.

Thanks,
Brian Roach

http://basho.github.io/riak-java-client/1.4.0/com/basho/riak/client/convert/package-summary.html


On Tue, Jul 30, 2013 at 11:41 AM, Paul Ingalls  wrote:
&gt; Newbie with Riak, and looking at the java client.
&gt;
&gt; Specifically, I've been digging into the domain mapping apis. Looking into
&gt; the code, it appears to me that, if I'm using links a bunch or even
&gt; secondary indexes, that I could lose some data during the conflict
&gt; resolution phase. I see where links and other relevant user data gets
&gt; cached during the conversion phase from the fetch and then patched back in
&gt; during the conversion phase for the store. However, it doesn't look like
&gt; you have the opportunity during the resolution phase to merge metadata.
&gt; Should I focus on using the raw client, or am I missing something?
&gt;
&gt; Thanks!
&gt;
&gt; Paul
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Paul Ingalls
&gt; Founder & CEO Fanzo
&gt; p...@fanzo.me
&gt; @paulingalls
&gt; http://www.linkedin.com/in/paulingalls
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

