---
title: "Re: benchmark results on my $75/month 5 node cluster :)"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-10-03T07:49:14-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12493"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12458"
author_name: "James Martin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-10-03T07:49:14-07:00
---


Alex,

Nice work benchmarking! One thing to keep in mind (and you probably
are well aware of this), particularly when benchmarking on cloud
platforms, is that there are a lot of factors that affect performance
outside -- other tenants, blackbox hardware upgrades, changes in SLAs
-- just to name a few. What you may see today in your benchmarks may
not be what you see tomorrow, or even in the next hour. Some
providers do offer performance SLAs and/or guaranteed IOPs, and this
can help mitigate the problem, but doesn't necessarily remove it.

You might find this article interesting (although a bit dated):
http://blog.scalyr.com/2012/10/16/a-systematic-look-at-ec2-io/

- James

On Wed, Oct 2, 2013 at 2:14 PM, Alex Rice  wrote:
&gt; Hey, something that is impressive about Riak is how well it performs
&gt; even on super low end cloud virtualization (unlike for example,
&gt; couchbase, which hardly runs at all unless you have quad cores per
&gt; each node)
&gt;
&gt; Having so much fun benchmarking, it's really distracting me from coding!
&gt;
&gt; the cluster : 5 nodes on Windows Azure cloud
&gt; Ubuntu 12.04, Riak 1.2.4
&gt; node are xsmall vm (1 shared cpu core, 768 mb ram)
&gt;
&gt; The xmall vms are only $15/month and they are not recommended for
&gt; "production". but in a 5 node riak cluster, it's really nothing to
&gt; scoff at!
&gt;
&gt; I suspect the main bottleneck is not the cpu or disk, rather I think
&gt; it's the each xsmall node is allowed only 5Mbit/sec on the ethernet.
&gt;
&gt; Here is a basho\\_bench graph, if anyone feels like viewing it
&gt; https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com/u/22076075/summary-xsmall-bitcask-5nodes-20min.png
&gt;
&gt; note the basho bench was running on a quad core machine on the same
&gt; vlan with 5 workers.
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

