---
title: "Re: Continuous HTTP POSTs to Riak"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2016-03-03T18:28:01-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg17104"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg17103"
author_name: "Christopher Mancini"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2016-03-03T18:28:01-08:00
---


If you don't need strong consistency for all Riak requests, just certain
ones, then explore the use of R and N vals that can be passed along with
the request or on a bucket-type level.

On Thu, Mar 3, 2016 at 9:23 PM Mark Schmidt  wrote:

&gt; Hi Qiang,
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Other more skilled folks can correct me if I am wrong, but I believe you
&gt; can enforce strong consistency on your nodes:
&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/theory/concepts/strong-consistency/
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; If I recall, you will take a performance hit as all nodes must receive the
&gt; data.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; - Mark Schmidt
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\*From:\\* riak-users [mailto:riak-users-boun...@lists.basho.com] \\*On Behalf
&gt; Of \\*Qiang Cao
&gt; \\*Sent:\\* Thursday, March 03, 2016 6:13 PM
&gt; \\*To:\\* Dave King 
&gt; \\*Cc:\\* riak-users 
&gt; \\*Subject:\\* Re: Continuous HTTP POSTs to Riak
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Thanks, Dave! I'm aware of Riak's eventual consistency. I wonder how I can
&gt; get Riak work in the way as I need. I'm in a situation where I expect the
&gt; immediate GET reads the value I've just posted. And the GET request isn't
&gt; sent out until the POST is done.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt;
&gt; -Qiang
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Thu, Mar 3, 2016 at 6:53 PM, Dave King  wrote:
&gt;
&gt; You need to google 'Eventual consistency'.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; - Peace
&gt;
&gt; Dave
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Thu, Mar 3, 2016 at 4:23 PM, Qiang Cao  wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Hi All,
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; I use Riak as a KV store and send http requests to its REST API to update
&gt; entries. Instead of using curl, I use Apache HttpClient to send requests.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; One thing bothering me is that sometimes I find the entry isn't properly
&gt; updated after an HTTP POST/PUT. For example, if I do an HTTP GET on the
&gt; same key immediately after an HTTP POST, the chance is good that I get a
&gt; stale value. This happens when I continuously POST to a multi-node Riak,
&gt; and some of the posts target the same key.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Also, I find I don't have this issue if I use a single-node Riak. So I
&gt; think something wasn't correct with my multi-node Riak cluster (I set
&gt; "allow\\_mult" to false). Any thoughts?
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Thanks in advance!
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Qiang
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
-- 
Sincerely,

Christopher Mancini
-----------------------------

employee = {
 purpose: solve problems with code,
 phone: 7164625591,
 email: cmanc...@basho.com,
 github: http://www.github.com/christophermancini
}
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

