---
title: "Re: Can't set long node name. Ubuntu 14.04"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-10-29T08:59:08-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15085"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15083"
author_name: "Ebbinge"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-10-29T08:59:08-07:00
---


Hello Luke. Allright, so I completed a clean installation of riak without
installing erlang, what I did is that I created a new Virtual Machine and
installed riak from apt-get like you said. I edited the /etc/riak/riak.conf
file like mentioned before, changing the name to riak@192.168.0.41 which is
my static IP, and all the other 3 things that need to be changed. In
terminal went sudo -s, then riak start and got the next message from riak
console:


root@ubuntu:~# riak start
!!!!
!!!! WARNING: ulimit -n is 1024; 65536 is the recommended minimum.
!!!!
riak failed to start within 15 seconds,
see the output of 'riak console' for more information.
If you want to wait longer, set the environment variable
WAIT\\_FOR\\_ERLANG to the number of seconds to wait.
root@ubuntu:~# riak console
config is OK
-config /var/lib/riak/generated.configs/app.2014.10.29.08.54.24.config
-args\\_file /var/lib/riak/generated.configs/vm.2014.10.29.08.54.24.args
-vm\\_args /var/lib/riak/generated.configs/vm.2014.10.29.08.54.24.args
!!!!
!!!! WARNING: ulimit -n is 1024; 65536 is the recommended minimum.
!!!!
Exec: /usr/lib/riak/erts-5.10.3/bin/erlexec -boot
/usr/lib/riak/releases/2.0.1/riak -config
/var/lib/riak/generated.configs/app.2014.10.29.08.54.24.config -args\\_file
/var/lib/riak/generated.configs/vm.2014.10.29.08.54.24.args -vm\\_args
/var/lib/riak/generated.configs/vm.2014.10.29.08.54.24.args -pa
/usr/lib/riak/lib/basho-patches -- console
Root: /usr/lib/riak
Erlang R16B02-basho5 (erts-5.10.3) [source] [64-bit] [smp:2:2]
[async-threads:64] [kernel-poll:true]

[os\\_mon] memory supervisor port (memsup): Erlang has closed
[os\\_mon] cpu supervisor port (cpu\\_sup): Erlang has closed
{"Kernel pid
terminated",application\\_controller,"{application\\_start\\_failure,riak\\_api,{{function\\_clause,[{proplists,get\\_value,[cacertfile,undefined,undefined],[{file,\\"proplists.erl\\"},{line,225}]},{riak\\_api\\_ssl,options,0,[{file,\\"src/riak\\_api\\_ssl.erl\\"},{line,34}]},{riak\\_api\\_web,spec\\_from\\_binding,3,[{file,\\"src/riak\\_api\\_web.erl\\"},{line,68}]},{riak\\_api\\_web,binding\\_config,2,[{file,\\"src/riak\\_api\\_web.erl\\"},{line,50}]},{riak\\_api\\_sup,'-web\\_processes/1-lc$^0/1-0-',1,[{file,\\"src/riak\\_api\\_sup.erl\\"},{line,63}]},{riak\\_api\\_sup,'-web\\_processes/1-lc$^0/1-0-',1,[{file,\\"src/riak\\_api\\_sup.erl\\"},{line,64}]},{riak\\_api\\_sup,web\\_processes,1,[{file,\\"src/riak\\_api\\_sup.erl\\"},{line,63}]},{riak\\_api\\_sup,init,1,[{file,\\"src/riak\\_api\\_sup.erl\\"},{line,53}]}]},{riak\\_api\\_app,start,[normal,[]]}}}"}

Crash dump was written to: /var/log/riak/erl\\_crash.dump
Kernel pid terminated (application\\_controller)
({application\\_start\\_failure,riak\\_api,{{function\\_clause,[{proplists,get\\_value,[cacertfile,undefined,undefined],[{file,"proplists.erl"},{line,225}]},{ria


I am new riak user, so I don't understand what might be wrong :/



--
View this message in context: 
http://riak-users.197444.n3.nabble.com/Can-t-set-long-node-name-Ubuntu-14-04-tp4031989p4031992.html
Sent from the Riak Users mailing list archive at Nabble.com.

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

