---
title: "Re: Increase number of partitions above 1024"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2016-02-23T00:56:59-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg17061"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg17053"
author_name: "Magnus Kessler"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2016-02-23T00:56:59-08:00
---


On 22 February 2016 at 16:10, Chathuri Gunawardhana &lt;
lanch.gunawardh...@gmail.com&gt; wrote:

&gt; I'm using riak master version on riak github (riak\\_kv\\_version :
&gt; &lt;&lt;"2.1.1-38-ga8bc9e0"&gt;&gt;)
&gt; . I don't use coverage queries.
&gt;
&gt; When I try to set the partition count over 1024, it suggest me to do it
&gt; via advanced config (in cuttlefish schema for riak core, there is a
&gt; validation to see whether it is above 1024 and if so they give this
&gt; suggestion). But I don't know how I can add this parameter to
&gt; advanced.config.
&gt;
&gt; Thank you very much!
&gt;

Hi Chaturi,

$ riak config describe ring\\_size
Documentation for ring\\_size
Number of partitions in the cluster (only valid when first
creating the cluster). Must be a power of 2, minimum 8 and maximum
1024.

 Valid Values:
 - an integer
 Default Value : 64
 Value not set in /etc/riak/riak.conf
 Internal key : riak\\_core.ring\\_creation\\_size

Cuttlefish configuration schemas are self-describing (via the riak config
describe command). You can use the name of the internal key in
advanced.config. If there's nothing else in advanced.config yet, the
setting looks like

[
 {riak\\_core,
 [
 {ring\\_creation\\_size, 2048}
 ]
 }
].

Also see
http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/ops/advanced/configs/configuration-files/#Advanced-Configuration
for more details about using the advanced configuration file.

I hope this helps.

Kind Regards,

Magnus


-- 
Magnus Kessler
Client Services Engineer
Basho Technologies Limited

Registered Office - 8 Lincoln’s Inn Fields London WC2A 3BP Reg 07970431
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

