---
title: "Re: Tuning a Riak cluster."
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-02-25T14:11:13-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10239"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg10223"
author_name: "Kevin Burton"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-02-25T14:11:13-08:00
---


Did you have a chance to look at the basho\\_bench errors?

On Feb 23, 2013, at 2:35 AM, Richard Shaw  wrote:

&gt; 
&gt; Hi Kevin,
&gt; 
&gt; I sympathise with R, i'm going to write an installation guide to go on the 
&gt; site.
&gt; 
&gt; In regards to the error, please paste in the contents of you vm.args file 
&gt; from the target node
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks
&gt; 
&gt; Richard
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Fri, Feb 22, 2013 at 11:05 PM,  wrote:
&gt;&gt; Here is the output from one configuration try:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 17:00:08.878 [info] Using http target "172.16.33.138":8098 for worker 2
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 17:00:08.878 [info] Using pb target "172.16.33.138":8087 for worker 2
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 17:00:08.993 [debug] Supervisor basho\\_bench\\_sup started 
&gt;&gt; basho\\_bench\\_worker:start\\_link(basho\\_bench\\_worker\\_2, 2) at pid &lt;0.96.0&gt;
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 17:00:08.999 [info] Using http target "172.16.33.107":8098 for worker 3
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 17:00:09.001 [info] Using pb target "172.16.33.107":8087 for worker 3
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 17:00:09.006 [debug] Supervisor basho\\_bench\\_sup started 
&gt;&gt; basho\\_bench\\_worker:start\\_link(basho\\_bench\\_worker\\_3, 3) at pid &lt;0.99.0&gt;
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 17:00:09.022 [debug] Supervisor net\\_sup started erl\\_epmd:start\\_link() at pid 
&gt;&gt; &lt;0.104.0&gt;
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 17:00:09.029 [debug] Supervisor net\\_sup started auth:start\\_link() at pid 
&gt;&gt; &lt;0.105.0&gt;
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 17:00:09.030 [info] Can't set long node name!
&gt;&gt; Please check your configuration
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 17:00:09.030 [error] Failed to start net\\_kernel for 
&gt;&gt; basho\\_bench\\_measurement\\_erlangvm: 
&gt;&gt; {shutdown,{child,undefined,net\\_sup\\_dynamic,{erl\\_distribution,start\\_link,[[basho\\_bench,longnames]]},permanent,1000,supervisor,[erl\\_distribution]}}
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; There is alot more output but this is the tail end of the output.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On Fri, Feb 22, 2013 at 4:34 PM, Richard Shaw wrote:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Hi Kevin,
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Always good practise to reply to the mailing list so others can benefit from 
&gt;&gt; the content
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; basho bench is the best place to start, If you have a working cluster or 
&gt;&gt; even a working single node, follow the benchmarking guide[0] 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Please let me see some of the specific errors you're having and we can help 
&gt;&gt; resolve them.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Outside of basho bench, I recommend benchmarking the raw performance of your 
&gt;&gt; VM, you can do this using a variety of tools like iostat, iperf or a test 
&gt;&gt; suite like Phoronix test suite, a very comprehensive FOSS tool[1] look at 
&gt;&gt; the `aio` test
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; I'd also recommend benchmarking each time you make a configuration change to 
&gt;&gt; really understand how effective that change was
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; [0] http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/cookbooks/Benchmarking/
&gt;&gt; [1] http://www.phoronix-test-suite.com/
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Kind Regards
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Richard
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On Fri, Feb 22, 2013 at 10:14 PM, Kevin Burton &lt; rkevinbur...@charter.net&gt; 
&gt;&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt; That was my next question. I have tried to get basho\\_bench to work but so 
&gt;&gt; far have been unsuccessful. If you have a simple "hello world" sample config 
&gt;&gt; I would greatly appreciate it. I have tried a bunch of configs in the 
&gt;&gt; examples directory but get met with one error or another. 
&gt;&gt; Other than that I have just timed various client driver calls. Mostly random 
&gt;&gt; reads some writes.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On Feb 22, 2013, at 3:48 PM, Richard Shaw &lt; rich...@basho.com&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Hi Kevin,
&gt;&gt; What kind of benchmarking have you done on your VMs and what did you use ?
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Kind Regards
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Richard
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On Fri, Feb 22, 2013 at 9:49 AM, Kevin Burton &lt; rkevinbur...@charter.net&gt; 
&gt;&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt; Ok I suspected as much. This will give me more ammo when requesting more 
&gt;&gt; resources. Thank you.
&gt;&gt; Now, back to the original question. Given that the physical hardware is 
&gt;&gt; taken care of. What parameters are most important when tuning a cluster. 
&gt;&gt; Again for arguments sake assume the same 4 node cluster with a read-write 
&gt;&gt; ratio of about 75 percent.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On Feb 21, 2013, at 8:26 PM, Alexander Sicular &lt; sicul...@gmail.com&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; It can't be said enough times but the number one thing you can do to ensure 
&gt;&gt; that you are getting true performance (not to mention redundancy) is to use 
&gt;&gt; different physical hardware for each of your nodes. Under no circumstances 
&gt;&gt; should you have more than one VM (one logical node in a Riak cluster) on the 
&gt;&gt; same physical hardware. Also, use multiple 
&gt;&gt; connections/threads/parallelism/whatever on client side and be sure to hit 
&gt;&gt; all the nodes in the cluster haproxy roundrobin-esque when writing to Riak. 
&gt;&gt; Everything else is in the noise.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; -Alexander Sicular
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; @siculars
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On Feb 21, 2013, at 9:04 PM, Kevin Burton &lt; rkevinbur...@charter.net&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; There each has about 20-30GB of disk space. They each are a VM so I am not 
&gt;&gt; sure how to specify the CPU. They all seem to be 64 bit Intel processors but 
&gt;&gt; I could tell you the clock speed. The network is 1Gb Ethernet.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; From: Sean Carey [mailto: ca...@basho.com] 
&gt;&gt; Sent: Thursday, February 21, 2013 7:59 PM
&gt;&gt; To: Kevin Burton
&gt;&gt; Cc: riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; Subject: Re: Tuning a Riak cluster.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Kevin,
&gt;&gt; Disk and CPU, and Network?
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Sean Carey
&gt;&gt; @densone
&gt;&gt; On Thursday, February 21, 2013 at 20:31, Kevin Burton wrote:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; I have a cluster of 4 machines (4 Linux VM machines each allocated about 1 
&gt;&gt; Gb of memory – yea I know it isn’t a lot). I would like to get some pointers 
&gt;&gt; on getting the fastest query time possible given these meager resources. 
&gt;&gt; Thank you.
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

