---
title: "Re: What is the purpose of \"rel\" links?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-07-22T09:52:48-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11689"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg11684"
author_name: "Age Mooij"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-07-22T09:52:48-07:00
---


Thanks Justin. That makes it clear. 

When it comes to modeling links for my Scala client library, I think I'll 
ignore "rel" links then, since they cannot be created (directly) by users and 
they cannot be walked using the link walking API.

In general, it would be helpful for the docs to be a bit more explicit about 
these and whether or not they are parts of the Riak link API.

Thanks,
Age


On Jul 22, 2013, at 16:19, Justin Sheehy  wrote:

&gt; Hi, Age.
&gt; 
&gt; The Link header in HTTP as used by Riak is defined by RFC 5988. In the Link 
&gt; Relation Type registry (http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5988#section-6.2.2) you 
&gt; can see that the relation type "up" refers to a parent document in a 
&gt; hierarchy of documents. In Riak, this means the bucket a key is in.
&gt; 
&gt; These are not Riak's own links, but rather an additional use of the Link 
&gt; header form which may be useful to some clients.
&gt; 
&gt; I hope that this helps.
&gt; 
&gt; -Justin
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Jul 12, 2013, at 1:52 PM, Age Mooij  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Hi
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; I've been looking at links and link walking and I noticed that Riak very 
&gt;&gt; often returns a special type of link with rel="up" instead of a riaktag, 
&gt;&gt; which is illegal for users to create.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; What is the purpose of this link? (beyond the reasonably obvious "this key 
&gt;&gt; belongs to bucket X). Why was it added?
&gt;&gt; Are there other "rels" than "up"? 
&gt;&gt; Can they be followed through link walking?
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; This behavior is not documented anywhere that I (or Google) could find.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Age
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 


\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

