---
title: "Re: Updating particular version of CRDT"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2017-02-22T07:45:03-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg18006"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg18004"
author_name: "Russell Brown"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2017-02-22T07:45:03-08:00
---


Hi Andrey,
The register inside a map is a LWW-register.

Long story: When we added CRDTs to Riak we did it for those users who wanted to 
avoid writing custom sibling resolution code, following on from that decision 
we decided not to add the MVRegister type. Riak’s default object is an 
MVRegister after all. When I say “we” I mean the CRDT team as was then, not 
Basho, as I am no longer at Basho.

Cheers

Russell

On 21 Feb 2017, at 08:35, Andrey Ershov  wrote:

&gt; Hi all,
&gt; 
&gt; I'm new to Riak and trying to figure out how to work with CRDTs properly. 
&gt; First of all, I decided to try MVRegister support. I'm using this tutorial 
&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riak/kv/2.2.0/developing/data-types/maps/. Language of 
&gt; my choice is Java.
&gt; 
&gt; Find source code here: 
&gt; https://gist.github.com/andrershov/d0ebb8fd111eca013b302f8abaf14445
&gt; 
&gt; I've created ahmedMap with two registers (name="Ahmed", phone="123")
&gt; Now I would like to simulate that there are two concurrent updates to phone 
&gt; register
&gt; phone="456" and phone="789"
&gt; 
&gt; For that, I'm fetching initial record and get context from it. After that, 
&gt; I'm performing two updates passing the same context to each one. 
&gt; I'm expecting that after fetching the record and reading the phone register, 
&gt; I should find two concurrent values in it: phone = ("456", "789"). But I get 
&gt; only the latest value phone = "789".
&gt; Also Register API seems confusing, because there is no method inside it that 
&gt; may return multiple values. 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; Could you please help me?
&gt; 
&gt; -- 
&gt; Thanks, 
&gt; Andrey
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com


\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

