---
title: "Re: User creation not possible Riak CS"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2017-05-03T07:34:05-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg18197"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg18192"
author_name: "Luke Bakken"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2017-05-03T07:34:05-07:00
---


Hi Henry,

Please use "Reply All" so that your responses are sent to the list.

At this point, I recommend looking through the console.log and
error.log files for Riak CS and Riak to see if anything looks obvious
as to the source of the error.

--
Luke Bakken
Engineer
lbak...@basho.com

On Tue, May 2, 2017 at 6:02 AM, Luke Bakken  wrote:
&gt; In addition, the correct field name should be "email", not name.
&gt;
&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riak/cs/2.1.1/cookbooks/configuration/riak-cs/#specifying-the-admin-user
&gt;
&gt; On Tue, May 2, 2017 at 6:01 AM, Luke Bakken  wrote:
&gt;&gt; Hi Henry,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; In the JSON you provided, "name" is followed by a semicolon. Is this a
&gt;&gt; typo? If not, that could be the cause of the error.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; Luke Bakken
&gt;&gt; Engineer
&gt;&gt; lbak...@basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Mon, May 1, 2017 at 10:26 AM, Henry- Norbert Cocos
&gt;&gt;  wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt; Hello,
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; I'm trying to run Riak CS on a RPI 3. I got it compiled and running, but now
&gt;&gt;&gt; i'm having troubles.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; I already changed the necessary attributes in the riak-cs.conf. I set up
&gt;&gt;&gt; stanchion, riak kv and riak cs.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; The attributes i changed include anonymous\\_user\\_creation=on and
&gt;&gt;&gt; admin.listener=:8000.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; I wanted to know, if there is a different way to create an admin user or is
&gt;&gt;&gt; there something wrong in the way i'm trying to create the user.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Everytime i run the following command i get the following error:
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; curl -v -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -XPOST
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://:8000/riak-cs/user --data '{"name";"m...@email.com",
&gt;&gt;&gt; "name":"adminuser"}'

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

