---
title: "Re: Unit testing persistence"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-08-02T10:01:43-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11869"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg11845"
author_name: "Jeremiah Peschka"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-08-02T10:01:43-07:00
---


Responses inline.

---
Jeremiah Peschka - Founder, Brent Ozar Unlimited
MCITP: SQL Server 2008, MVP
Cloudera Certified Developer for Apache Hadoop


On Wed, Jul 31, 2013 at 9:41 PM, Wagner Camarao wrote:

&gt; Hi all ~
&gt;
&gt; Great meetup today - looking forward to upgrading to 1.4
&gt;
&gt; I had a question Mark suggested posting here, then we discussed with a few
&gt; other folks too: How do we unit / integration test persistence with riak?
&gt;

Carefully and in isolation. ;)


&gt;
&gt; Given a basic dev environment, e.g. running only one riak physical node
&gt; locally with all configs default, how do we surely read the data we just
&gt; wrote?
&gt;

This will depend, in part, on what you're trying to test and how you want
the application to behave. I test everything with 5 Riak processes running
on one machine, so it's very doable, you just have to recognize that
performance will be Not Good™.

If you're doing a put immediately followed by a get in the same process,
I'd consider using return\\_body instead of issuing a separate get.

Otherwise, a general best practice is to make sure R + W &gt; N


&gt;
&gt; I have tried setting DW=all (Durable Write - as recommended for best
&gt; consistency in the financial example from the little riak book - section
&gt; for developers, more than N/R/W) and tried also using {delete\\_mode, keep}
&gt; in riak\\_kv app.config (since I truncate the buckets after each test suite),
&gt; but still, I get intermittent test failures as eventually the data isn't
&gt; available for reading right after writing.
&gt;

Developing the .NET client, our integration tests create bucket names using
GUIDs so we can avoid any kind of spookiness around deletes. I just want to
test how the client will behave in a known situation. Truncating buckets
definitely falls into the category of weird behavior that you probably
won't observe in production.


&gt;
&gt; Please note I'm trying to avoid mocking / stubbing as well as hacks like
&gt; "keep trying to read" until a certain timeout.
&gt;
&gt; I'm looking ideally for a simple configuration or any known best practices.
&gt;
&gt; Thanks
&gt; ~W
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

