---
title: "Re: Announcing riak-scala-client 0.8.0"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-03-18T12:18:17-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10465"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg10463"
author_name: "Age Mooij"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-03-18T12:18:17-07:00
---


Hi Mark,

I've been testing this on a customer project that is not in production yet so 
most of the tire-kicking so far has been done in development, unit testing, 
acceptance testing, and some limited load testing. We're currently working on 
much heavier load tests that should put some pressure on the client.

The project runs with the eLevelDB backend and has some limited 2i usage so 
far. No map reduce or link walking yet, which also explains why they are still 
missing from the feature set.

As for me, stress/load testing and benchmarking are high on the agenda for the 
near future so hopefully I can publish some numbers soon. I'm very curious 
about how it compares with Raiku ;)

Age


On Mar 18, 2013, at 16:02, Mark Phillips  wrote:

&gt; Hi Age,
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks for sending this along. It looks awesome. And nice work on the
&gt; docs, too. :)
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; This is the first public release but I've been testing it on a large project
&gt;&gt; since January and it was time to let other people kick the tires and tell me
&gt;&gt; what I did wrong (or right).
&gt; 
&gt; Any chance you can give any details on how you kicked the tires and
&gt; how it's being used in production? I would be interested to know what
&gt; hoops you made it jump through. :)
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks again. Nice work.
&gt; 
&gt; Mark
&gt; twitter.com/pharkmillups
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Sun, Mar 17, 2013 at 5:23 PM, Age Mooij  wrote:
&gt;&gt; Hi
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; After three months of hacking, I'm proud to announce a new Riak Scala client
&gt;&gt; library based on Akka and Spray and simply called riak-scala-client. It aims
&gt;&gt; to be easy to use, non-blocking, and fast, in that order.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; http://riak.scalapenos.com/
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; This is the first public release but I've been testing it on a large project
&gt;&gt; since January and it was time to let other people kick the tires and tell me
&gt;&gt; what I did wrong (or right).
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; The client is purely based on the http API and currently it supports the
&gt;&gt; following Riak features:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; - Fetch
&gt;&gt; - Store
&gt;&gt; - Delete
&gt;&gt; - Secondary Indexes (2i)
&gt;&gt; - Fetching exact matches
&gt;&gt; - Fetching ranges
&gt;&gt; - Storing with indexes
&gt;&gt; - Getting/setting bucket properties
&gt;&gt; - ping
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Other features include:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; - Completely non-blocking thanks to Scala 2.10 Futures, Akka, and Spray
&gt;&gt; - Transparent integration with Akka projects through an Akka extension
&gt;&gt; - An untyped RiakValue class for interacting with raw Riak values and their
&gt;&gt; associated
&gt;&gt; meta data (vclock, etag, content type, last modified time, indexes, etc.)
&gt;&gt; - A typed RiakMeta[T] class for interacting with deserialized values while
&gt;&gt; retaining
&gt;&gt; their associated meta data (vclock, etag, content type, last modified
&gt;&gt; time, indexes, etc.)
&gt;&gt; - Customizable conflict resolution on all fetches (and stores when
&gt;&gt; returnbody=true)
&gt;&gt; - Automatic (de)serialization of Scala (case) classes using type classes
&gt;&gt; - builtin spray-json (de)serializers
&gt;&gt; - Automatic indexing of Scala (case) classes using type classes
&gt;&gt; - Auto-retry of fetches and stores (a standard feature of the underlying
&gt;&gt; spray-client library)
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; The following Riak (http) API features are still missing and will follow
&gt;&gt; soon:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; - Link walking
&gt;&gt; - Map Reduce
&gt;&gt; - Listing all keys in a bucket
&gt;&gt; - Listing all buckets
&gt;&gt; - Conditional fetch/store semantics (i.e. If-None-Match and If-Match for
&gt;&gt; ETags and
&gt;&gt; If-Modified-Since and If-Unmodified-Since for LastModified)
&gt;&gt; - Node Status
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Check it out at: http://riak.scalapenos.com/
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Cheers,
&gt;&gt; Age
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; 


\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

