---
title: "Re: Riak 2.0.0 RC1"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-07-21T15:02:28-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14525"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14521"
author_name: "Jared Morrow"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-07-21T15:02:28-07:00
---


There is a Java driver,
http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/dev/using/libraries/ The 2.0 support for
that will land very soon, so keep an eye out on this list for the updated
Java client.

-Jared


On Mon, Jul 21, 2014 at 3:42 PM, Shailesh Mangal &lt;
shailesh.man...@getzephyr.com&gt; wrote:

&gt; New to RIAK, Does Riak 2.0 support Play 2.0. Is there a java/scala
&gt; driver?
&gt;
&gt; - Shailesh
&gt;
&gt; From: Alex De la rosa 
&gt; Date: Monday, July 21, 2014 at 2:38 PM
&gt; To: Jared Morrow 
&gt; Cc: Riak Users Mailing List 
&gt; Subject: Re: Riak 2.0.0 RC1
&gt;
&gt; Awesome! Can't wait to try it! What about the python client for Riak
&gt; 2.0? I remember testing the actual version and still have many issues and
&gt; non-workable new features (like counters, sets, maps, etc.)
&gt;
&gt; Thanks!
&gt; Alex
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Mon, Jul 21, 2014 at 11:34 PM, Jared Morrow  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Riak-Users,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Everyone at Basho is extremely happy to announce the public availability
&gt;&gt; of Riak 2.0.0 RC. As a release candidate, we do not recommend using it in
&gt;&gt; production, but it should be considered feature and API complete for Riak
&gt;&gt; 2.0 final. We reserve the right to make changes for any data-loss or severe
&gt;&gt; performance issues found post-RC, but these will not affect the API.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; This is our most ambitious release, with major new features throughout
&gt;&gt; the product. With that in mind, please take plenty of time to read through
&gt;&gt; the Release Notes. There are some important considerations regarding
&gt;&gt; upgrades, known issues, and packaging. The Release Notes are still a
&gt;&gt; work-in-progress and will be continually updated as we march towards 2.0
&gt;&gt; final. We have made a lot of progress on our docs site
&gt;&gt;  for 2.0, but still have work to do before final
&gt;&gt; release. We appreciate your patience.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; -
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\*Release Notes\\*:
&gt;&gt; https://github.com/basho/riak/blob/2.0/RELEASE-NOTES.md
&gt;&gt; -
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\*Downloads\\*: http://docs.basho.com/riak/2.0.0/downloads/
&gt;&gt; Note: There will be minor tweaks to the download site to show the
&gt;&gt; labels for SuSE Enterprise Linux and Ubuntu 14.04 packages
&gt;&gt; -
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\*APT/YUM Repos\\* (see release-notes re: this change):
&gt;&gt; https://packagecloud.io/basho/riak/install Note: If you are
&gt;&gt; downloading the files directly, use our docs site. For apt/yum repo
&gt;&gt; install, use packagecloud.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks to everyone in our community,
&gt;&gt; -Team Basho
&gt;&gt; ​
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

