---
title: "Re: Question about counters"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-06-30T01:30:30-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14415"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14414"
author_name: "Christian Dahlqvist"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-06-30T01:30:30-07:00
---


Hi Alex,

In Riak 2.0 you can create a map data type that can contain a number of
related counters. If you have a limited number of named counters, e.g. for
scorers in the World Cup, this would allow you to update multiple counters
using a single operation and read all of then as a single key retrieval.

If you however have a large number of counters that can not fit into a
single value, this approach will not work. Instead of trying to retrieve
the top values through MapReduce, you could instead enable Riak Search 2.0
for the bucket and query the largest values through Solr, which should be
more efficient and flexible than using MapReduce.

Best regards,

Christian


On Mon, Jun 30, 2014 at 7:17 AM, Alex De la rosa 
wrote:

&gt; A "set" may not be a good solution if you have many counters getting
&gt; updated at once and you should do the sorting (if possible) before saving
&gt; the "set" back into RIAK.
&gt;
&gt; The goal scoring was a very simple/small example... but imagine you want
&gt; to do Twitter's Trending Topics counting which twits has more comments (if
&gt; we have a "comments" counter)... will be too massive to save it all in a
&gt; "set".
&gt;
&gt; I guess that MapReduce will be the way in this case.
&gt;
&gt; Cheers,
&gt; Alex
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Mon, Jun 30, 2014 at 12:14 AM, Alexander Sicular 
&gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Not that I know of. I believe keys are independent in this regard. Basho
&gt;&gt; is introducing sets in riak 2.0 but I don't think they will bee sorted sets
&gt;&gt; like in redis.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; -Alexander
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; @siculars
&gt;&gt; http://siculars.posthaven.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Sent from my iRotaryPhone
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Jun 29, 2014, at 15:54, Alex De la rosa 
&gt;&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi there,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I have a question about something that just came up to my mind... can we
&gt;&gt; determine which counter is higher in a bucket? For example:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; # Taking the FIFA World Cup as example:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; bucket = client.bucket\\_type('counter\\_bucket').bucket('goals')
&gt;&gt; counter = bucket.new('Neymar')
&gt;&gt; counter.increment(4)
&gt;&gt; counter = bucket.new('Messi')
&gt;&gt; counter.increment(4)
&gt;&gt; counter = bucket.new('JamesRodriguez')
&gt;&gt; counter.increment(5)
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Is there any way (without using MapReduce) to get the top scorer of the
&gt;&gt; World Cup? or a descendent ordered list of the keys by its value?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Cheers,
&gt;&gt; Alex
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

