---
title: "Re: Riak ring size"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-10-03T10:53:35-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12506"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12505"
author_name: "Sean Cribbs"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-10-03T10:53:35-07:00
---


Your main concern with greater numbers of partitions is contention for IO
(and CPU time for the vnodes to process requests). Consider that with 6
nodes, you will have 170(+/- 1) partitions running on each physical node.
That's \\*at least\\* 170 files open, all scribbling to and reading from disk.
 You might get away with 512, but my experience tells me to be wary of that
for small clusters. I think unless you're doing big-web-property-level
traffic you won't need to grow your cluster as large as you think,
especially with machines that beefy.


On Thu, Oct 3, 2013 at 12:46 PM, John Kavanagh wrote:

&gt; Hi Sean ,
&gt;
&gt; What would the perform issues be with setting a ring size to 1024 (instead
&gt; of 128 or 256) on a 6 node cluster?
&gt;
&gt; I can see the possibility of memory overflow (which is not a high concern
&gt; on a 128G machine ) , but other than that , are there any additional
&gt; concerns (with Bitcask) ?
&gt;
&gt; I'm trying to understand if there is a significant performance degradation
&gt; with a value of 1024 versus future proofing growth.
&gt;
&gt; Cheers,
&gt;
&gt; John
&gt;
&gt; On 3 Oct 2013, at 16:33, Sean Cribbs  wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Hi John,
&gt;
&gt; Our rule-of-thumb is 8-64 partitions per physical node, so a good starting
&gt; point for a 6-node cluster would be 128 or 256. 256 will let you expand up
&gt; to about 30 nodes without needing a ring resize.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Thu, Oct 3, 2013 at 10:14 AM, John Kavanagh  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi all,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I'm trying to understand the optimal ring size / vnode config for a 6
&gt;&gt; node Riak cluster, which will most likely expand to many more nodes over
&gt;&gt; time . Does everyone bump from the default of 64 to 1024 to facilitate
&gt;&gt; future growth ? I can provide more detailed capacity metrics off list if
&gt;&gt; necessary.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; John
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt; Software Engineer
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; http://basho.com/
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;


-- 
Sean Cribbs 
Software Engineer
Basho Technologies, Inc.
http://basho.com/
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

