---
title: "Re: Hard time with Riak 2.0.0pre5 features"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-11-20T14:05:44-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13046"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13033"
author_name: "Jordan West"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-11-20T14:05:44-08:00
---


Hi Valter,

I've made some more comments in-line but the tl;dr is you are making
requests to a \\*bucket\\* named "bucket" which is a member of the "default"
\\*bucket type\\* instead of making requests to a \\*bucket\\* which is a member of
the \\*bucket type\\* you created: "bucket". I'm not surprised given we don't
have much documentation on either of these features yet. You can find a
detailed description of bucket types (which will be part of the Riak 2.0
release notes) here:
http://lists.basho.com/pipermail/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com/2013-November/013847.html.
I, unfortunately, do not have a link for client documentation and using
strong consistency at this time.

On Wed, Nov 20, 2013 at 1:04 PM, Valter Balegas  wrote:

&gt;
&gt; f(Pid), {ok, Pid} = riakc\\_pb\\_socket:start\\_link("localhost", 8087).
&gt; NewA = riakc\\_obj:new(&lt;&lt;"bucket"&gt;&gt;, &lt;&lt;"key"&gt;&gt;, &lt;&lt;"my binary data"&gt;&gt;).
&gt; NewB = riakc\\_obj:new(&lt;&lt;"bucket"&gt;&gt;, &lt;&lt;"key"&gt;&gt;, &lt;&lt;"my other binary data"&gt;&gt;).
&gt; riakc\\_pb\\_socket:put(Pid, NewA, [return\\_body]).
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
The requests you are making here are to a bucket under the default type,
not the bucket type you created. Keys in Riak 2.0 are now fully qualified
by BucketType/BucketName/Key. If the bucket type is omitted the default
type is assumed. With riak-erlang-client you pass the bucket-type as part
of the first argument to riakc\\_obj:new:

riakc\\_obj:new({BucketType, BucketName}, Key, Data)

In your case BucketType = &lt;&lt;"bucket"&gt;&gt; and BucketName can be whatever you
please. I would suggest using a name other than "bucket" for the type, just
to help clarify things.

Hope that helps get you past the issue.

Cheers,

Jordan

No dia 20/11/2013, às 17:23, Jordan West  escreveu:
&gt;
&gt; Hi Valter,
&gt;
&gt; Could you provide the code you are using to generate the concurrent
&gt; requests in addition to the output of `riak-admin bucket-type list` and
&gt; `riak-admin bucket-type status ` where  is the name
&gt; of the strongly consistent bucket you created (from one node should be
&gt; sufficient)? I've been using this feature in a personal project and just
&gt; tested on a local cluster using curl and was unable to reproduce (the
&gt; cluster was a bit behind develop but there have been no recent changes to
&gt; the feature).
&gt;
&gt; Cheers,
&gt; Jordan
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Wed, Nov 20, 2013 at 5:30 AM, Valter Balegas  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hello,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I was able to activate strong consistency, but the node keeps generating
&gt;&gt; siblings, when i execute two concurrent writes (Store two objects without
&gt;&gt; vector clock).
&gt;&gt; I tried with the Riak 2.0.0.5pre package and the latest version on the
&gt;&gt; repository. Am i missing anything? i was expecting operations to fail, in
&gt;&gt; this case.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; It seems that the error was caused by my Erlang version. The creation of
&gt;&gt; the bucket type didn’t fail with R16B02.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Valter
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; No dia 20/11/2013, às 03:13, Jordan West  escreveu:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Valter,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; You mentioned you are using a recent develop. Would you be able to pull
&gt;&gt; down any recent changes and update-deps (or build a fresh devrel)? I just
&gt;&gt; tried a fresh clone of develop and was unable to reproduce the same error.
&gt;&gt; I, also, tried with R15B01 (Riak 2.0 is slated to use R16B02 right now).
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Alternatively, you should be able to workaround this by doing a `riak
&gt;&gt; attach-direct` and defining the atom at the erlang shell:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; 1&gt; consistent.
&gt;&gt; consistent
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Jordan
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Tue, Nov 19, 2013 at 3:06 PM, Valter Balegas wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; I can’t create the bucket type:
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; RPC to 'riak@127.0.0.1' failed: {'EXIT',
&gt;&gt;&gt; {badarg,
&gt;&gt;&gt; [{erlang,list\\_to\\_existing\\_atom,
&gt;&gt;&gt; ["consistent"],
&gt;&gt;&gt; []},
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; {riak\\_kv\\_wm\\_utils,erlify\\_bucket\\_prop,1,
&gt;&gt;&gt; [{file,"src/riak\\_kv\\_wm\\_utils.erl"},
&gt;&gt;&gt; {line,393}]},
&gt;&gt;&gt; {riak\\_kv\\_console,
&gt;&gt;&gt; '-bucket\\_type\\_create/2-lc$^0/1-0-',1,
&gt;&gt;&gt; [{file,"src/riak\\_kv\\_console.erl"},
&gt;&gt;&gt; {line,483}]},
&gt;&gt;&gt; {riak\\_kv\\_console,bucket\\_type\\_create,2,
&gt;&gt;&gt; [{file,"src/riak\\_kv\\_console.erl"},
&gt;&gt;&gt; {line,483}]},
&gt;&gt;&gt; {rpc,'-handle\\_call\\_call/6-fun-0-',5,
&gt;&gt;&gt; [{file,"rpc.erl"},{line,203}]}]}}
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; I activated the consensus in riak.conf in the etc dir (find command
&gt;&gt;&gt; seems not to find the pattern anywhere else).
&gt;&gt;&gt; Is there any other way to create the bucket?
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Valter
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; No dia 19/11/2013, às 18:10, Jordan West  escreveu:
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; On Tue, Nov 19, 2013 at 7:33 AM, Valter Balegas wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Strong consistency:
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; How does one activate this? As i understand, either the pb or the http
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; clients do not accept the consistent property.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Using strong consistency in the Tech Preview is a two-step process.
&gt;&gt;&gt; First, turn on the feature in your riak.conf (the following command assumes
&gt;&gt;&gt; you are using a devrel):
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; for d in dev/dev\\*; do sed -e 's/## enable\\_consensus =
&gt;&gt;&gt; true/enable\\_consensus = true/' -i $d/etc/riak.conf; done
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Then re(start) the cluster.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; With the enable\\_consensus=true un-commented and the cluster running
&gt;&gt;&gt; create a strongly consistent bucket type:
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-admin bucket-type create  '{"props": {"consistent":
&gt;&gt;&gt; true}}'
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-admin bucket-type activate 
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; You can create and activate the bucket type without having
&gt;&gt;&gt; enabled\\_consensus=true but both must be done to work with strongly
&gt;&gt;&gt; consistent data.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Once that is done you can make requests, just like you would to
&gt;&gt;&gt; eventually consistent data in Riak, but the semantics will be different.
&gt;&gt;&gt; For example, if you make two PUT requests to the same key, w/ no vector
&gt;&gt;&gt; clock\\*, the second request will fail because the data already exists. More
&gt;&gt;&gt; details on semantics of strongly consistent requests can be found in this
&gt;&gt;&gt; PR: https://github.com/basho/riak\\_kv/pull/710
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Hope that helps get you started,
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Jordan
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; \\* in strong consistency, the "vector clock" is not really a vector
&gt;&gt;&gt; clock. its called such for familiarity, but like any real vector clock
&gt;&gt;&gt; exposed to the client, should be treated like an opaque context.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Details about my environment:
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; -I’m running Mac OSX 10.9
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; -Erlang R15B01
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; -Compiling riak “develop” branch, from basho github
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; -Compiling riak-erlang-client “master” branch, from basho github.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; -recompiled the latest versions of the branches just before writing
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; this email.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Thank you for your help,
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Valter
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

