---
title: "Re: Riak PHP questions"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-05-13T06:40:52-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11061"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg11059"
author_name: "coLLin LeGault"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-05-13T06:40:52-07:00
---


Thank you! This worked, and now that you mentioned the class import I found
how to do that as well.

I guess the documentation needs a lot of updating to keep up with the code.
I really appreciate your help!

Thanks,
coLLin

On Monday, May 13, 2013, Kaspar Pedersen  wrote:
&gt; Hi Collin
&gt; If you did not import the class in your php file, you need to use the
fully qualified name which is \\Basho\\Riak\\Riak like this:
&gt;
&gt; $client = new \\Basho\\Riak\\Riak('127.0.0.1', 8098);
&gt;
&gt; The name change form RiakClient to Riak happened recently (probably as
part of the PSR1 and PSR2 refactoring).
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Br.
&gt; Kaspar Bach Pedersen
&gt;
&gt; Den 12/05/2013 kl. 22.38 skrev coLLin LeGault &gt;:
&gt;
&gt; I saw composer.json in riak-php-client and google'd it (never heard of it
before). Installed it and ran it and changed my require to:
&gt; require\\_once('./riak-php-client/vendor/autoupdate.php');
&gt;
&gt; Now I am getting this error:
&gt;
&gt; PHP Fatal error: Class 'RiakClient' not found in /root/storeinriak.php
on line 3
&gt;
&gt; Digging further in I don't find any reference to RiakClient in any of the
src files, but I do find a Riak class. So I changed the source code to new
Riak('127.0.0.1'. '8098'); only to get the same error, but this time for no
Riak class.
&gt;
&gt; Is this client library supported? Is anyone using it? I can't find much
of anything online when searching for any information about using this
client library. There is an example riak\\_php\\_app listed on the basho site
from the community, but it doesn't exist anymore on github. I found the
doxygen docs at Basho's website, but even they are out of date:
http://basho.github.io/riak-php-client/. Any help would be greatly
appreciated.
&gt;
&gt; Thanks in advance,
&gt; coLLin
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; coLLin
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; email: clega...@nextgengeek.com
&gt; web: http://www.nextgengeek.com
&gt; twitter: @clegault
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Sun, May 12, 2013 at 3:24 PM, coLLin LeGault &gt; wrote:
&gt; Hi folks, I am relatively new to Riak. I was trying to get something
working with the PHP client library by following the quick start in the
README.md. When I clone this repo (found here:
https://github.com/basho/riak-php-client) I do get a directory called
riak-php-client, but there is no riak.php in that directory. I found a
Riak.php in src/Basho/Riak/, but that doesn't work either. Are the docs out
of date? The example follows:
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; require\\_once('riak-php-client/riak.php');
&gt;
&gt; # Connect to Riak
&gt; $client = new RiakClient('127.0.0.1', 8098);
&gt;
&gt; # Choose a bucket name
&gt; $bucket = $client-&gt;bucket('test');
&gt;
&gt; # Supply a key under which to store your data
&gt; $person = $bucket-&gt;newObject('riak\\_developer\\_1', array(
&gt; 'name' =&gt; "John Smith",
&gt; 'age' =&gt; 28,
&gt; 'company' =&gt; "Facebook"
&gt; ));
&gt;
&gt; # Save the object to Riak
&gt; $person-&gt;store();
&gt;
&gt; # Fetch the object
&gt; $person = $bucket-&gt;get('riak\\_developer\\_1');
&gt;
&gt; # Update the object
&gt; $person-&gt;data['company'] = "Google";
&gt; $person-&gt;store();
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; coLLin
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; email: clega...@nextgengeek.com
&gt; web: http://www.nextgengeek.com
&gt; twitter: @clegault
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;

-- 


\\*CoLLin LeGault\\*
NextGenGeek
| e: clega...@nextgengeek.com | w: http://www.nextgengeek.com
[image: Facebook]  [image:
Twitter]
 [image: LinkedIn]  [image:
Flickr]
 [image: about.me]  [image: Facebook
Page]
 [image: Google Plus] 

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

