---
title: "Re: Random timeouts on Riak"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-12-29T04:04:39-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15416"
author_name: "Jason Ryan"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-12-29T04:04:39-08:00
---


Hi Sargun,


&gt;&gt;1) I recommend you have a 5-node cluster:

We'll add another node for sure.

&gt;&gt; 2) What version of Riak are you using?

2.0.1

&gt;&gt; 3) What backend(s) are you using?

leveldb

&gt;&gt; 4) What's the size of your keyspace?

Not sure what to answer here.


&gt;&gt; 5) Are you actively rewriting keys, or writing keys to the cluster?

Yes, plenty of other operations on this cluster for reading/writing etc.
This particular key does not get written to anymore once its initially
created.

&gt;&gt; 6) Do you know how much I/O the cluster is currently doing?

Very little at the moment (almost non-existant) as we haven't ported any of
our clients onto this new system just yet - we ran a load test against our
system and then 2 days later without any changes at all we started noticing
this timeout issue.


We turned on debug messages temporarily and have noticed this in the logs:

2014-12-29 11:51:44.957 [error] &lt;0.14490.1&gt; gen\\_fsm &lt;0.14490.1&gt; in state
waiting\\_vnode\\_r terminated with reason: bad argument in call to
erlang:hd([]) in riak\\_object:most\\_recent\\_content/1 line 228
2014-12-29 11:51:44.958 [error] &lt;0.14490.1&gt; CRASH REPORT Process
&lt;0.14490.1&gt; with 0 neighbours exited with reason: bad argument in call to
erlang:hd([]) in riak\\_object:most\\_recent\\_content/1 line 228 in
gen\\_fsm:terminate/7 line 622



Thanks,
Jason

[image: photo]
\\*Jason Ryan\\*
VP Engineering

Trustev
Real Time, Online Identity Verification

email: jason.r...@trustev.com
skype: jason\\_j\\_ryan
web: www.trustev.com

Trustev Ltd, 2100 Cork Airport Business Park, Cork, Ireland.

On 29 December 2014 at 11:55, Sargun Dhillon  wrote:

&gt; Several things:
&gt; 1) I recommend you have a 5-node cluster:
&gt; http://basho.com/why-your-riak-cluster-should-have-at-least-five-nodes/
&gt; 2) What version of Riak are you using?
&gt; 3) What backend(s) are you using?
&gt; 4) What's the size of your keyspace?
&gt; 5) Are you actively rewriting keys, or writing keys to the cluster?
&gt; 6) Do you know how much I/O the cluster is currently doing?
&gt;
&gt; On Mon, Dec 29, 2014 at 2:51 AM, Jason Ryan 
&gt; wrote:
&gt; &gt; Hi,
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; We are getting random timeouts from our application (&gt;60seconds) when we
&gt; try
&gt; &gt; to retrieve a key from our Riak cluster (4 nodes with a load balancer in
&gt; &gt; front of them). Our application just uses the standard REST API to query
&gt; &gt; Riak.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; We are pretty new to Riak - so would like to understand how best to debug
&gt; &gt; this issue? Is there any good pointers on what to start with? This is our
&gt; &gt; production cluster.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Thanks,
&gt; &gt; Jason
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; This message is for the named person's use only. If you received this
&gt; &gt; message in error, please immediately delete it and all copies and notify
&gt; the
&gt; &gt; sender. You must not, directly or indirectly, use, disclose, distribute,
&gt; &gt; print, or copy any part of this message if you are not the intended
&gt; &gt; recipient. Any views expressed in this message are those of the
&gt; individual
&gt; &gt; sender and not Trustev Ltd. Trustev is registered in Ireland No. 516425
&gt; and
&gt; &gt; trades from 2100 Cork Airport Business Park, Cork, Ireland.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;
&gt;

-- 


This message is for the named person's use only. If you received this 
message in error, please immediately delete it and all copies and notify 
the sender. You must not, directly or indirectly, use, disclose, 
distribute, print, or copy any part of this message if you are not the 
intended recipient. Any views expressed in this message are those of the 
individual sender and not Trustev Ltd. Trustev is registered in Ireland No. 
516425 and trades from 2100 Cork Airport Business Park, Cork, Ireland.
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

