---
title: "Re: No more disk space on a node of my Riak cluster"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-03-12T21:28:46-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10399"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg10363"
author_name: "Mark Phillips"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-03-12T21:28:46-07:00
---


Hi Godefroy,

Good to hear you managed to get the node running again. How is the
rebalancing going? Also, what's the network setup for the cluster?

Mark

On Fri, Mar 8, 2013 at 4:24 AM, Godefroy de Compreignac
 wrote:
&gt; Hi Mark,
&gt;
&gt; Thanks for your answer.
&gt; To have the node running back, I moved a 39GB bitcask dir to another disk
&gt; and made a symlink (ln -s). Rebalancing seems to be running, but
&gt; inequalities in data repartition stay huge and the node I added yesterday
&gt; still has 0% of cluster data.
&gt;
&gt; Godefroy
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; 2013/3/7 Mark Phillips 
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Salut Godefroy
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Thu, Mar 7, 2013 at 6:50 AM, Godefroy de Compreignac
&gt;&gt;  wrote:
&gt;&gt; &gt; Hello,
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; I'm running a cluster of 4 nodes (1,8 TB on each) and I have a problem
&gt;&gt; &gt; of
&gt;&gt; &gt; balancing. Current data repartition is 18%, 19%, 30%, 34%. The node with
&gt;&gt; &gt; 34%
&gt;&gt; &gt; of cluster data is completely full and doesn't want to start anymoe.
&gt;&gt; &gt; I don't know what to do. Do you have a solution for such a problem?
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; It looks like you need to increase storage capacity for the entire
&gt;&gt; cluster so you can move some data off of the full node. Do you have
&gt;&gt; the ability to another machine (or two) to the cluster?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; The issue, of course, is that you'll need to get that Riak node
&gt;&gt; running before it can hand off a subset of its data to a new member. I
&gt;&gt; assume the disk being full is the primary reason its failing to start?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Mark
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; Thank you in advance!
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; Godefroy
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;
&gt;

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

