---
title: "RE: Riak-CS-Control"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-07-02T00:38:03-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11366"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg11358"
author_name: "Guy Morton"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-07-02T00:38:03-07:00
---


Hi Chris

The video didn't include any information that I hadn't figured out. My problem 
is that I can't get it to work. I get the nice riak-cs admin page in my browser 
on port 8000 but it shows no users (perhaps reasonable because I only have 
succeeded in creating a single user so far - the admin user) and the create 
user function fails (with the error previously mentioned).

I've sent you my config files, though since then I've tried what feels like a 
thousand variants all to no avail. If the config is wrong enough riak-cs won't 
start, and when it does I can't do a thing.

I'm sure Riak cs is a great product, once it's set up! I just don't seem to be 
able to get over that hurdle. 

--
Guy Morton
Web Development Manager
Brüel & Kjær EMS

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
From: Christopher Meiklejohn [cmeiklej...@basho.com]
Sent: Monday, 1 July 2013 4:26 PM
To: Guy Morton
Cc: riak-users@lists.basho.com
Subject: Re: Riak-CS-Control

Hi Guy,

Here is a good video introduction to configuring Riak CS Control:

http://basho.com/getting-started-with-riak-cs-control/

Let me know if you run into any specific issues and I'm happy to help. I'm 
also lurking in the #riak room on Freenode (nick: cmeiklejohn) if you need 
further help (any of us should be able to!)

- Chris

--
Christopher Meiklejohn
Software Engineer
Basho Technologies, Inc.



On Monday, July 1, 2013 at 2:14 AM, Guy Morton wrote:

&gt; Also, I just found this - riak-cs-control... None of the install/config 
&gt; documents I saw previously mentioned it, or that it should be configured, or 
&gt; how. It seems to control the web interface referred to in my last email...
&gt;
&gt; Where is the most up-to-date info about Riak CS and how to set it up? I am 
&gt; trying to set it up on Debian squeeze and I'm still floundering. I seem very 
&gt; close to having it working, but not quite. It's a bit frustrating! Is it just 
&gt; me, or is it complex to get working?
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Guy Morton
&gt; Web Development Manager
&gt; Brüel & Kjær EMS
&gt; This e-mail is confidential and may be read, copied and used only by the 
&gt; intended recipient. If you have received it in error, please contact the 
&gt; sender immediately by return e-mail. Please then delete the e-mail and do not 
&gt; disclose its contents to any other person.
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com




This e-mail is confidential and may be read, copied and used only by the 
intended recipient. If you have received it in error, please contact the sender 
immediately by return e-mail. Please then delete the e-mail and do not disclose 
its contents to any other person.

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

