---
title: "Re: Java Client with POJOs"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-11-11T12:17:40-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12940"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12936"
author_name: "Brian Roach"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-11-11T12:17:40-08:00
---


Michael -

You have something stored in that bucket that isn't the JSON you're
expecting when you run your second map/reduce. As I mentioned, there's
nothing special about how the Java client works; it just serializes
the POJO instance using Jackson.

My suggestion would be using curl / your browser (or the Java client)
and seeing what that is; listing the keys and checking the contents.

I notice you're using the ".withoutFetch()" option when storing;
that's guaranteed to create a sibling if you have allow\\_multi=true set
in the bucket. If that's the case then that behavior is expected; both
versions are stored in Riak.

Also worth noting is that if you're recently deleted something
(explicitly via a delete operation) it's very likely to get a
tombstone pass to map/reduce. If you're doing explicit deletes from
Riak you need to check the object metadata for the
&lt;&lt;"X-Riak-Deleted"&gt;&gt; header being true, and then ignore that object in
your map function.

- Roach


On Mon, Nov 11, 2013 at 12:46 PM, Michael Guymon
 wrote:
&gt; Hi Roach,
&gt;
&gt; Thanks for taking a moment to give me a hand with this. Let me try and be a
&gt; bit more clear on what I am trying to figure out. My first steps are a Class
&gt; Account:
&gt;
&gt; public class Account implements Serializable {
&gt; private String email;
&gt; }
&gt;
&gt; Storing the account via
&gt;
&gt; myBucket.store("key", account).withoutFetch().execute();
&gt;
&gt; then retrieving it with a map reduce using JS, along the lines of:
&gt;
&gt; var accounts = [];
&gt; for( i=0; i if ( values[i].email == 't...@test.net ) {
&gt; accounts.push(values[i]);
&gt; }
&gt; }
&gt; return accounts
&gt;
&gt; works as expected.
&gt;
&gt; Now I updated the Class Account to have the name property:
&gt;
&gt; public class Account implements Serializable {
&gt; private String name;
&gt; private String email;
&gt; }
&gt;
&gt; and storing with data to the same bucket, for the same key and attempting to
&gt; Map Reduce for "name" I get a
&gt;
&gt; {"phase":1,"error":"[{&lt;&lt;\\"lineno\\"&gt;&gt;,1},{&lt;&lt;\\"message\\"&gt;&gt;,&lt;&lt;\\"TypeError:
&gt; values[i].name is
&gt; undefined\\"&gt;&gt;},{&lt;&lt;\\"source\\"&gt;&gt;,&lt;&lt;\\"unknown\\"&gt;&gt;}]","input":null,"type":null,"stack":null}.
&gt;
&gt; If I change the bucket to a new one, the Map Reduce runs successfully
&gt; without the above error.
&gt;
&gt; This is Riak 1.4.2 running on Ubuntu 13.04
&gt;
&gt; thanks,
&gt; Michael
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On 11/11/2013 02:32 PM, Brian Roach wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Hi Michael,
&gt;
&gt; I'm somewhat confused by your question; map/reduce doesn't really have
&gt; anything to do with your Java POJO/class.
&gt;
&gt; When using the Riak Java client and storing a POJO, the default
&gt; converter (JSONConverter) uses the Jackson JSON library and converts
&gt; the instance of your POJO into a JSON string and stores it in Riak.
&gt;
&gt; If you change that POJO class and store more things, the resulting
&gt; JSON is obviously going to be different (in your case having an
&gt; additional field named "minty").
&gt;
&gt; When doing Map/Reduce, whatever JavaScript or Erlang functions you
&gt; provide are executing in Riak and being given the data stored in Riak
&gt; (the JSON you stored); they have no connection to Java.
&gt;
&gt; Can you expand on "Now the map reduce fails for that the new
&gt; property" with what exactly the problem is? It sounds like you have a
&gt; problem with your JavaScript or Erlang function(s).
&gt;
&gt; Thanks!
&gt; - Roach
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Mon, Nov 11, 2013 at 12:07 PM, Michael Guymon
&gt;  wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Hello,
&gt;
&gt; I have a (hopefully dumb) question about working with the Java client and
&gt; POJOs. I justed started tinkering with Riak and have created a simple
&gt; Account POJO and happily crammed it into a bucket "test1" and mapped reduced
&gt; it (hooray). The problem starts when I updated the Class for Account, adding
&gt; a new String property "minty". Now the map reduce fails for that the new
&gt; property in the bucket "test1". Seems like the POJO is always being
&gt; serialized to the format of the older Account class. If I create a new
&gt; bucket, "test2", and cram and reduce anew, everything works again.
&gt;
&gt; I have been grepping around the docs, but have not been able to zero in on
&gt; my issue. Am I doing something bone headed? Is it possible to update a
&gt; bucket to support a modified POJO class?
&gt;
&gt; thanks,
&gt; Michael
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

