---
title: "RE: Multiple named counters per key"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-11-08T12:29:03-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12904"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12902"
author_name: "Mark A. Basil, Jr."
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-11-08T12:29:03-08:00
---


Yes that would certainly work. My experience up until recently has been 
limited to RDBMS, so I’m still trying to wrap my head around ideas of relating 
data when done this way. 

 

How does one choose the “best” of 2i vs. links vs. deterministic key names? 
What makes this hard to adopt is that there isn’t much background info on 
use-case, and the impact that a particular method had on that case. I don’t 
know what resource to turn to that is a starting point for “when you need to do 
this, then these are the options and here are the pros/cons”.

 

I just don’t have time to watch 96 Vimeo videos that are all 30-60 minutes long.

 

Counters seem like a good idea, but in order to use one we must solve another 
problem. My mindset is use the built-in counter because that’s what they are 
meant to do; however, when that brings about a more complex problem of 
determining how to relate the data, it just doesn’t make sense.

 

Again, I’m very new to “NoSQL”. So if I’m missing some fundamental thing that 
should be obvious please forgive me. 

 

-m

 

From: Dave Rusek [mailto:dru...@basho.com] 
Sent: Friday, November 08, 2013 2:53 PM
To: Mark A. Basil, Jr.; riak-users@lists.basho.com
Subject: Re: Multiple named counters per key

 

Could you accomplish this with a bucket which is a map of counters? The counter 
name would be the map key.

 

-- 
Dave Rusek
Sent with Airmail  

 

On November 8, 2013 at 12:50:23 PM, Mark A. Basil, Jr. (m...@badarmadillo.com) 
wrote:

Just a thought. It would be handy if one could add many named counters per 
buket/key to more closely handle a shopping cart scenario. Otherwise, unless 
I’m mistaken, one would have to have a bucket that would be the “cart” and keys 
which are the “items”. That doesn’t make a lot of sense to me.

 

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_ 
riak-users mailing list 
riak-users@lists.basho.com 
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com 

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

