---
title: "Re: Riak CS from Erlang"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-04-07T15:46:39-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14016"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13964"
author_name: "Lee Sylvester"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-04-07T15:46:39-07:00
---


Hi Kelly,

I’ve got Riak CS working with erlcloud, so thanks for that. It would have 
taken a lot longer without your help. However, I wanted to change from using 
erlcloud:put\\_object to using erlcloud:put\\_multipart\\_object. However, when I 
make the change, I get the following error:

{error,
 {error,
 {aws\\_error,
 {http\\_error,403,[],
 "AccessDeniedAccess Denied/tmp-files/test.png"}},
 [{erlcloud\\_s3,s3\\_request,9,[{file,"src/erlcloud\\_s3.erl"},{line,899}]},
 {erlcloud\\_s3,s3\\_xml\\_request,8,
 [{file,"src/erlcloud\\_s3.erl"},{line,834}]},
 {erlcloud\\_s3,put\\_multipart\\_object,6,
 [{file,"src/erlcloud\\_s3.erl"},{line,662}]},
 {builder\\_web\\_fileupload\\_resource,process\\_post,2,
 [{file,"src/builder\\_web\\_fileupload\\_resource.erl"},{line,43}]},
 {webmachine\\_resource,resource\\_call,3,
 [{file,"src/webmachine\\_resource.erl"},{line,186}]},
 {webmachine\\_resource,do,3,
 [{file,"src/webmachine\\_resource.erl"},{line,142}]},
 {webmachine\\_decision\\_core,resource\\_call,1,
 [{file,"src/webmachine\\_decision\\_core.erl"},{line,48}]},
 {webmachine\\_decision\\_core,decision,1,
 [{file,"src/webmachine\\_decision\\_core.erl"},{line,486}]}]}}


I tried adding an acl item to the Options list, but that didn’t seem to help. 
Do you have any idea what may be causing this?

Thanks,
Lee




On 1 Apr 2014, at 16:11, Kelly McLaughlin  wrote:

&gt; Lee,
&gt; 
&gt; The erlcloud usage in the riak\\_test test modules might be easier to follow. 
&gt; Take a look at ./riak\\_test/tests/object\\_get\\_test.erl for a simple example. 
&gt; Also take a look at setup/2 in ./riak\\_test/src/rtcs.erl to see how the 
&gt; erlcloud configuration record is created. Hope that helps.
&gt; 
&gt; Kelly
&gt; 
&gt; On March 31, 2014 at 11:47:52 AM, Lee Sylvester (lee.sylves...@gmail.com) 
&gt; wrote:
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Hi Kelly,
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Thank you for the information. I took a look at the client test, but as it 
&gt;&gt; uses an FSM, the continuous looping gave me a headache :-) Is there a 
&gt;&gt; simpler test that demos this? If not, can you highlight the lines that make 
&gt;&gt; the calls to Riak CS etc? That part evades me.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt; Lee
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On 31 Mar 2014, at 16:09, Kelly McLaughlin  wrote:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Lee,
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; We have a fork of erlcloud (https://github.com/basho/erlcloud) we use for 
&gt;&gt;&gt; testing and it can be made to work with your Riak CS cluster with 
&gt;&gt;&gt; relatively little pain. Look in the riak\\_cs repo under 
&gt;&gt;&gt; client\\_tests/erlang/ercloud\\_eqc.erl for some example usage. You'll probably 
&gt;&gt;&gt; want to set the proxy host and port and perhaps the host name if you're not 
&gt;&gt;&gt; using the default "s3.amazonaws.com". 
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Kelly
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; On March 31, 2014 at 8:44:03 AM, Lee Sylvester (lee.sylves...@gmail.com) 
&gt;&gt;&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Hi guys, 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; I’m setting up my own Riak CS cluster and wanted to know what the best way 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; to interact with that cluster would be from an Erlang app? I’ve taken a 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; look at ErlCloud, but it seems I’d need to butcher it to get it to work 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; with a custom cluster (not Amazon’s setup). 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Thanks, 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Lee 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_ 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

