---
title: "Re: Riak for streaming video"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-06-26T13:57:10-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14389"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14388"
author_name: "Alex De la rosa"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-06-26T13:57:10-07:00
---


Hi Hector,

Thanks for your response :) highly appreciated. I have more questions
though.

Riak CS has to be implemented in Amazon S3? Or can I house it myself with
own managed servers?

What is the limit for an object in Standard Riak? Large objects should go
to Riak CS, but what would be a limit for the Standard Riak? I may want to
save pictures, for example, in binary data... not a RAW version, but like
processed photo uploads from users... I think Standard Riak can hold that
with no problem, but it would be good to know the size limit for a key's
content.

Thanks,
Alex


On Thu, Jun 26, 2014 at 10:45 PM, Hector Castro  wrote:

&gt; Hey Alex,
&gt;
&gt; My response are inline below.
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Hector
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Thu, Jun 26, 2014 at 4:26 PM, Alex De la rosa
&gt;  wrote:
&gt; &gt; Hi Hector,
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; I see, I always thought that Riak CS was the same as Riak just that you
&gt; run
&gt; &gt; it in Amazon S3... they are actually different...
&gt;
&gt; Correct, but it is important to note that Riak is still at the core of
&gt; Riak CS.
&gt;
&gt; &gt; So... if I have a social network and one of the features is that they can
&gt; &gt; share video, I would use a normal Riak cluster for the webapp and data
&gt; and a
&gt; &gt; Riak CS cluster for the video storage/streaming... am I right?
&gt;
&gt; That seems like a reasonable conclusion.
&gt;
&gt; Riak is fundamentally a distributed key/value store for low latency
&gt; access to smaller pieces of data. Riak CS is an S3/Swift
&gt; API-compatible object storage platform with a little higher request
&gt; latency, but also the added ability to house very large objects
&gt; (backups, raw images, video).
&gt;
&gt; &gt; By the way, couldn't this "range header" be implemented in standard Riak?
&gt; &gt; might be a good thing to have so you don't need 2 clusters for this
&gt; matter.
&gt;
&gt; It could some day. Right now, separating the clusters is best because
&gt; tuning a single cluster for both use cases would be difficult.
&gt;
&gt; &gt; Thanks,
&gt; &gt; Alex
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; On Thu, Jun 26, 2014 at 9:28 PM, Hector Castro  wrote:
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; Hi Alex,
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; For this type of problem, you may want to look into Riak CS. [0] It is
&gt; &gt;&gt; an object storage platform built on top of Riak.
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; When you GET an object from Riak CS, you can specify a Range header to
&gt; &gt;&gt; get the object by its byte offset. [1]
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; --
&gt; &gt;&gt; Hector
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; [0] http://docs.basho.com/riakcs/latest/
&gt; &gt;&gt; [1]
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riakcs/latest/references/apis/storage/s3/RiakCS-GET-Object/#Examples
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; On Thu, Jun 26, 2014 at 3:22 PM, Alex De la rosa
&gt; &gt;&gt;  wrote:
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; Hi there,
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; Imagine that I want to use Riak for a video service like Youtube and I
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; save
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; the video file in Riak... is there a way to stream the contents of 1
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; key? I
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; know we can stream keys... but what about its content?
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; It would be pretty troublesome to have to wait for the full data to be
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; downloaded $bucket-&gt;get('myvideo') to be able to serve it... as they
&gt; can
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; be
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; pretty big files.
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; Is there any recommendation to store/get big files like videos? or it
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; would
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; be better to use some other system than Riak for the job?
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; Thanks,
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; Alex
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

