---
title: "Re: Configuring Riak 2.0"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-11-05T06:42:37-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12852"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12835"
author_name: "Chris Read"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-11-05T06:42:37-08:00
---


Glad someone there is thinking about configuration :D

Question - are you planning on making it just as easy to find out what the
\\_running\\_ configuration is? Currently I have to resort to the:

riak-attach
application:get\\_all\\_env(...).

incantation to find out settings riak is actually using at the time. While
I don't mind using attach, it's not always obvious what env you should be
asking for in the first place...

Thanks,

Chris


On Mon, Nov 4, 2013 at 11:36 AM, Joe DeVivo  wrote:

&gt; Riak Users,
&gt;
&gt; We've been kind of tiptoeing around the configuration changes for Riak
&gt; 2.0. Mostly it was because I wanted to have a dramatic reveal at
&gt; RICON|West. Now that you can see that here (http://ricon.io/west2013.htmlDay 
&gt; 1, Track 1, 7:08:22), it's time for me to talk to you all about
&gt; configuration.
&gt;
&gt; A lot of what I want to say, I've already written in a cool blog post with
&gt; fancy features like "syntax highlighting" and "hyperlinks". I encourage you
&gt; to read my story here:
&gt; https://github.com/joedevivo/ricon/blob/master/cuttlefish.md
&gt;
&gt; The biggest issue I have with the state of configuration in the 2.0 tech
&gt; preview is the lack of documentation. Changing how we do configuration is
&gt; going to affect almost all of the documentation. We're working on that
&gt; already, but in the interim, here's a gist of mappings from old config
&gt; style to new style: https://gist.github.com/joedevivo/7305410 I'll do my
&gt; best to keep updating that gist as we make changes to the configuration
&gt; settings.
&gt;
&gt; As you thumb through that gist, please note that some variable names in
&gt; the 2.0 configuration file may change before release. Cuttlefish makes
&gt; changing the names of these variables easy, and some names were just
&gt; transposed from their Erlang counterparts. If you have a better name for
&gt; some setting in Riak, please reach out to me. While I can't promise to use
&gt; your suggestion, I'm always interested in how people are actually thinking
&gt; about configuration.
&gt;
&gt; Stay rad,
&gt; --joe
&gt;
&gt; ---
&gt; Software Engineer at Basho
&gt; @joedevivo
&gt; jdev...@basho.com
&gt; irc: joedevivo
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

