---
title: "Re: Crash Error"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-03-04T07:51:07-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15815"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15811"
author_name: "Sean Cribbs"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-03-04T07:51:07-08:00
---


Are you using a load balancer in front of Riak, like HAProxy, with health
checks turned on?

On Wed, Mar 4, 2015 at 7:24 AM, Jason Ryan  wrote:

&gt; Hi all,
&gt;
&gt; We're getting the following crash report messages in the log very
&gt; regularly in the last day - it renders our Riak Cluster pretty much
&gt; unusable - until we restart Riak on each node. All nodes report the same
&gt; type of error.
&gt;
&gt; 2015-03-04 13:17:43.106 [error] &lt;0.31063.9&gt; CRASH REPORT Process
&gt; &lt;0.31063.9&gt; with 0 neighbours crashed with reason: no function clause
&gt; matching webmachine\\_request:peer\\_from\\_peername({error,enotconn},
&gt; {webmachine\\_request,{wm\\_reqstate,#Port&lt;0.89869&gt;,[],undefined,undefined,undefined,{wm\\_reqdata,'GET',...},...}})
&gt; line 150
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Anyone seen this before, know what the cause might be?
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; Jason
&gt;
&gt; [image: photo]
&gt; \\*Jason Ryan\\*
&gt; VP Engineering
&gt;
&gt; Trustev
&gt; Real Time, Online Identity Verification
&gt;
&gt; email: jason.r...@trustev.com
&gt; skype: jason\\_j\\_ryan
&gt; web: www.trustev.com
&gt;
&gt; Trustev Ltd, 2100 Cork Airport Business Park, Cork, Ireland.
&gt;
&gt; This message is for the named person's use only. If you received this
&gt; message in error, please immediately delete it and all copies and notify
&gt; the sender. You must not, directly or indirectly, use, disclose,
&gt; distribute, print, or copy any part of this message if you are not the
&gt; intended recipient. Any views expressed in this message are those of the
&gt; individual sender and not Trustev Ltd. Trustev is registered in Ireland
&gt; No. 516425 and trades from 2100 Cork Airport Business Park, Cork, Ireland.
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;


-- 
Sean Cribbs 
Sr. Software Engineer
Basho Technologies, Inc.
http://basho.com/
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

