---
title: "Re: is it possible to use FQDN instead of IP in riak.conf for \"listener.http.$name” field?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-08-04T12:59:17-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16353"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16351"
author_name: "ROMAN SHESTAKOV"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-08-04T12:59:17-07:00
---


thanks a lot Richard and Geoff
Regards, Roman

&gt; On 4 Aug 2015, at 20:51, Geoff Clark  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; Can confirm, we have this set in our production cluster.
&gt; 
&gt; On Mon, Aug 3, 2015 at 6:31 AM, Richard Jonas 
&gt;  &gt; wrote:
&gt; Hi Roman,
&gt; 
&gt; my guess is that you can use 0.0.0.0 as IP address which means "listen on 
&gt; every network device", so if the IP address changes you don't need to change 
&gt; anything in the config. Please double check this.
&gt; 
&gt; Richard
&gt; 
&gt; On Wed, Jul 22, 2015 at 7:03 PM, Nick Marino  &gt; wrote:
&gt; Hi Roman,
&gt; 
&gt; I took a quick look at the riak\\_api code, and unfortunately it doesn't look 
&gt; like there's an easy way to do this right now. The code assumes you'll enter 
&gt; an IP address, and there's no place where it would attempt to resolve a 
&gt; hostname if you passed that in instead.
&gt; 
&gt; That said, this does seem like it would be a nice feature to have, and 
&gt; probably shouldn't be terribly difficult to implement. If you have a GitHub 
&gt; account you could try logging a feature request under the issues section for 
&gt; the riak\\_api project (https://github.com/basho/riak\\_api 
&gt; ). I can't make any guarantees as to 
&gt; whether/when anyone will have time to look into it, but hopefully it's 
&gt; something that could be done in the short to medium term. If you don't have a 
&gt; GitHub account and would like me to enter this for you, send me an email and 
&gt; I can get a request filed. 
&gt; 
&gt; In the mean time, your best bet is probably to write a script to 
&gt; automatically regenerate your config file with the correct IP addresses as 
&gt; needed. Not the prettiest solution, but unfortunately that's the best 
&gt; suggestion I have for the time being.
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; Nick
&gt; 
&gt; On Mon, Jul 20, 2015 at 4:48 PM, ROMAN SHESTAKOV  &gt; wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; Hello,
&gt; 
&gt; is there any way to specify in riak.conf in field "listener.http.$name” FQDN 
&gt; instead of IP address?
&gt; 
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;listener.http.$name This is the IP address and TCP port to which the Riak 
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;HTTP interface will bind. {"127.0.0.1",8098}&lt;&lt;&lt;
&gt; 
&gt; why is it required to use IP address instead of a host name? In my setting 
&gt; RIAK\\_KV is deployed on dynamic VMs and IP could be changed if the VM is 
&gt; launched on a different hypervisor.
&gt; 
&gt; Regards, Roman
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com 
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com 
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; -- 
&gt; Richard Jonas
&gt; Erlang Solutions Hungary Kft
&gt; 
&gt; Address:
&gt; Riverpark Office K.32
&gt; Közraktár street 32. 3/1.
&gt; 1093 Budapest
&gt; Hungary
&gt; Phone/fax:
&gt; +36-1-7000-654 
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com 
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

