---
title: "Re: riak-cs fails to start after reimporting Docker container"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2017-03-08T07:09:45-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg18074"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg18057"
author_name: "Jean-Marc Le Roux"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2017-03-08T07:09:45-08:00
---


2017-03-08 15:53 GMT+01:00 Jon Brisbin :

&gt; FWIW- All work done so far on Riak-in-Docker is for purposes of testing
&gt; and ad-hoc cluster creation and NOT for use in "production" environments
&gt; (for any definition of the word "production"). Things like exposing the
&gt; conf files on a volume which are more production-oriented haven't been in
&gt; scope of the work yet; providing a self-contained image that can be
&gt; bootstrapped OOTB has been the focus. That said, we're definitely
&gt; discussing how we might support Docker in a more robust way. There's lots
&gt; to do, beyond just initial config and data on volumes. There's the IP
&gt; addressing and networking issues of bridges to consider, among other
&gt; things.
&gt;

For now we use a single riak node so for us Docker is not much of an issue.
We successfully backuped/restored riak/riak-cs by backuping/restoring the
corresponding Docker volume container, which makes things a lot easier when
you have multiples databases and stuff like that.

Might be good to make sure this info is encapsulated into a GitHub issue so
&gt; we don't loose track of it.


In the end, the ONE thing to fix is the cumbersome error message. A propre
error message would have saved me days of "work"...
Should I create a new issue for that ?

Regards,

-- 
\\*Jean-Marc Le Roux\\*


Founder and CEO of Aerys (http://aerys.in)

Blog: http://blogs.aerys.in/jeanmarc-leroux
Cell: (+33)6 20 56 45 78
Phone: (+33)9 72 40 17 58
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

