---
title: "Re: Riak unexpectedly crashes"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-11-27T06:46:57-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15259"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15258"
author_name: "Alexander Sicular"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-11-27T06:46:57-08:00
---


Are you sure your ulimit persists through reboot? 

-Alexander 

@siculars
http://siculars.posthaven.com

Sent from my iRotaryPhone

&gt; On Nov 27, 2014, at 09:39, Ivaylo Panitchkov  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; Hello,
&gt; 
&gt; I'm running a single Riak server used for dev purposes and noticed something 
&gt; unexpected.
&gt; It happened few times in the past and I just want to share my observation 
&gt; with you if someone experienced the same problem.
&gt; While the server was up and running it happened the machine needed to be 
&gt; rebooted.
&gt; Once the reboot cycle completed I noticed the running Riak process suddenly 
&gt; crashed.
&gt; If I try to start it again it continues crashing. 
&gt; I haven't time to investigate what causing the problem but the way to solve 
&gt; it was to simply delete the content of the bitcask folder (it's a dev server 
&gt; so nothing critical there).
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks in advance,
&gt; Ivaylo
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; -- 
&gt; Ivaylo Panitchkov
&gt; Software developer
&gt; Hibernum Creations Inc.
&gt; 
&gt; Ce courriel est confidentiel et peut aussi être protégé par la loi.Si vous 
&gt; avez reçu ce courriel par erreur, veuillez nous en aviser immédiatement en y 
&gt; répondant, puis supprimer ce message de votre système. Veuillez ne pas le 
&gt; copier, l’utiliser pour quelque raison que ce soit ni divulguer son contenu à 
&gt; quiconque.
&gt; This email is confidential and may also be legally privileged. If you have 
&gt; received this email in error, please notify us immediately by reply email and 
&gt; then delete this message from your system. Please do not copy it or use it 
&gt; for any purpose or disclose its content.
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

