---
title: "Re: First Write Wins"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-05-19T19:25:52-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11111"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg11110"
author_name: "John Daily"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-05-19T19:25:52-07:00
---


A few quick thoughts...

We're tackling a very similar problem (perhaps even the identical problem) with 
user accounts in Riak CS via the Stanchion subsystem. I know that started out 
as a component running on a single node to avoid conflicts like this, but I 
believe it is evolving into a more sophisticated solution.

This feels like a feature request for allowing keys to be created with 
immutable values. I would assume that topic has arisen before, but I'm not 
aware of when or whether it's something we've seriously considering 
implementing.

Certainly one would have to be careful with sloppy quorums: in the event of a 
network partition, with default settings it would be possible to create 
identical keys on different parts of the cluster without an immediate conflict. 
You should make certain the primary vnodes are always required by specifying 
pw=quorum and pr=quorum (which would mean that attempting to write the same key 
in a partitioned scenario would fail unless a majority of the primary vnodes 
are reachable).

Hopefully someone else who's given this some thought in the past will jump in; 
I'll make further inquiries tomorrow.

-John Daily
Technical Evangelist

On May 19, 2013, at 7:29 PM, Jeremy Ong  wrote:

&gt; For automatic conflict resolution, often times, the easiest thing to do is 
&gt; impose a Last Write Wins policy.
&gt; 
&gt; However, in certain circumstances, First Write Wins makes more sense. For 
&gt; example, suppose you are handling user creation. Creating a single user will 
&gt; populate values for two keys:
&gt; 
&gt; User Id =&gt; User data
&gt; Username =&gt; User Id
&gt; 
&gt; A unique User Id is generated to accommodate future username changes. In the 
&gt; event that another user attempts to create an account simultaneously with the 
&gt; same username, a conflict will exist. The easiest thing for me to do here, is 
&gt; after the account is created, check the username to see if it points to the 
&gt; correct User Id. If so, return a success message. Otherwise, rollback changes 
&gt; to the first key.
&gt; 
&gt; I'm OK with last write wins for now, but is there a way of imposing a simple 
&gt; first write wins policy without needing siblings and client conflict 
&gt; resolution?
&gt; 
&gt; Cheers,
&gt; Jeremy
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

