---
title: "Re: node_put_fsm_active maxing out"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-11-06T06:00:50-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16738"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16734"
author_name: "Ted Burghart"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-11-06T06:00:50-08:00
---


I’ve added a comment to https://github.com/basho/riak/issues/789 
, but will follow up here as well.

On 64-bit platforms, HiPE is generally a shaky proposition. On Linux, 
specifically, there are workarounds in the VM to allow it to (hopefully) run 
safely, but it’s somewhat constrained on beefy 64-bit hardware, and unlikely to 
yield significant performance increases in many cases. Turning it off should 
never destabilize the system - it’s turning it on you have to be careful about. 
 I’d be surprised if turning off HiPE was a factor here.

As I noted in the GH issue, there are version inconsistencies in the 
information you included there, and I’m more inclined to focus on that than on 
the VM.

– Ted

&gt; On 5-Nov 2015, at 8:54 PM, Chris Read wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; I had a look at that again this evening after I sent that last email, then 
&gt; looked again at the VM's. The other thing that jumped out at me then was that 
&gt; the system that's been working for the last year has hipe enabled, the 
&gt; problem one does not. My limited understanding of Erlang runtimes feels like 
&gt; that could have something to do with it...
&gt; 
&gt; Chris
&gt; 
&gt; On Thu, Nov 5, 2015 at 6:55 PM, Ted Burghart wrote:
&gt; Hi Chris,
&gt; 
&gt; This is pretty unusual - basho6 just turns on frame pointers, which should 
&gt; have a (likely immeasurable) impact on performance, but otherwise should be 
&gt; really innocuous.
&gt; 
&gt; Along with Doug’s question about what specific OS you’re on, are you sure the 
&gt; change from basho5 to basho6 is the only change in your execution environment?
&gt; 
&gt; – Ted
&gt; 
&gt; Ted Burghart
&gt; Senior Engineer
&gt; Basho Technologies http://www.basho .com
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On 5-Nov 2015, at 6:21 PM, Chris Read wrote:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Anyone out there?
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Here's some more detail on the Erlang builds:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; This one works as expected:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; sys\\_system\\_architecture : &lt;&lt;"x86\\_64-unknown-linux-gnu"&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; sys\\_system\\_version : &lt;&lt;"Erlang R16B02-basho5 (erts-5.10.3) [source] [64-bit] 
&gt;&gt; [smp:8:8] [async-threads:64] [hipe] [kernel-poll:true]"&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; This one has the problem:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; sys\\_system\\_architecture : &lt;&lt;"x86\\_64-unknown-linux-gnu"&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; sys\\_system\\_version : &lt;&lt;"Erlang R16B02\\_basho6 (erts-5.10.3) [source-bcd8abb] 
&gt;&gt; [64-bit] [smp:24:24] [async-threads:64] [kernel-poll:true] [frame-pointer]"&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Chris
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On Tue, Nov 3, 2015 at 12:47 PM, Chris Read wrote:
&gt;&gt; Greetings all...
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; We've been building riak from source for a while, but I've had trouble 
&gt;&gt; getting the 2.1 lines built reliably and so would like to revert back to 
&gt;&gt; using the .deb package. The problem I have is that in our test environment 
&gt;&gt; we always manage to max out node\\_put\\_fsm\\_active under sustained write loads, 
&gt;&gt; and they never drop.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; When running riak 2.0.4 on R16B02-basho5 (our current prod version) 
&gt;&gt; everything is working as expected. 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Using the .deb package of 2.0.4 pushes us to R16B02\\_basho6, which is where 
&gt;&gt; we see the problem arrive of node\\_puts\\_fsm\\_active going up and never 
&gt;&gt; dropping back own again, even after the write load stops.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Further testing with the riak 2.0.6 2.1.1 .deb packages (both contain 
&gt;&gt; R16B02\\_basho8) show the same problem.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Questions I have are:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 1) Anyone else seen this?
&gt;&gt; 2) Is there any way I can see why these FSM's appear to be deadlocked?
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Chris
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com 
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

