---
title: "Yokozuna queries slow"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-04-20T22:08:41-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16043"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16042"
author_name: "Jason Campbell"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-04-20T22:08:41-07:00
---


Hello,

I'm currently trying to debug slow YZ queries, and I've narrowed down the 
issue, but not sure how to solve it.

First off, we have about 80 million records in Riak (and YZ), but the queries 
return relatively few (a thousand or so at most). Our query times are anywhere 
from 800ms to 1.5s.

I have been experimenting with queries directly on the Solr node, and it seems 
to be a problem with YZ and the way it does vnode filters.

Here is the same query, emulating YZ first:

{
 "responseHeader":{
 "status":0,
 "QTime":958,
 "params":{
 "q":"timestamp:[1429579919010 TO 1429579921010]",
 "indent":"true",
 "fq":"\\_yz\\_pn:55 OR \\_yz\\_pn:40 OR \\_yz\\_pn:25 OR \\_yz\\_pn:10",
 "rows":"0",
 "wt":"json"}},
 "response":{"numFound":80,"start":0,"docs":[]
 }}

And the same query, but including the vnode filter in the main body instead of 
using a filter query:

{
 "responseHeader":{
 "status":0,
 "QTime":1,
 "params":{
 "q":"timestamp:[1429579919010 TO 1429579921010] AND (\\_yz\\_pn:55 OR 
\\_yz\\_pn:40 OR \\_yz\\_pn:25 OR \\_yz\\_pn:10)",
 "indent":"true",
 "rows":"0",
 "wt":"json"}},
 "response":{"numFound":80,"start":0,"docs":[]
 }}

I understand there is a caching benefit to using filter queries, but a 
performance difference of 100x or greater doesn't seem worth it, especially 
with a constant data stream.

Is there a way to make YZ do this, or is the only way to query Solr directly, 
bypassing YZ? Does anyone have any other suggestions of how to make this 
faster?

The timestamp field is a SolrTrieLongField with default settings if anyone is 
curious.

Thanks,
Jason
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

