---
title: "Re: LevelDB"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-06-08T09:23:56-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16227"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16226"
author_name: "Joe Olson"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-06-08T09:23:56-07:00
---


Matt - thanks for the support. 

Adding 
leveldb.data\\_root=“./leveldb” 

results in 
"IO error: 
/mnt/fast/./leveldb/91343852333181432387730302044767688728495783936/LOCK: No 
such file or directory" 

Changing it to 
leveldb.data\\_root=“leveldb” 

results in 
"IO error: 
/mnt/fast/leveldb/91343852333181432387730302044767688728495783936/LOCK: No such 
file or directory"} 

Running "riak start" as root has no effect, and I also double checked the 
directory permissions. I also manually created the leveldb subdirectory. Still 
get the same results. 







From: "Matthew Von-Maszewski"  
To: "Joe Olson"  
Cc: "riak-users"  
Sent: Monday, June 8, 2015 10:56:24 AM 
Subject: Re: LevelDB 

Joe, 

Long story short, I am slowly rebuilding my debug setup. Taking longer than I 
thought. I suspect, but have not yet verified, that if you add one more line: 

leveldb.data\\_root=“./leveldb” 

… your troubles will go away. If you test that before I do, let me know your 
results. I will get the documentation updated if it works. 

Matthew 





On Jun 8, 2015, at 10:37 AM, Joe Olson &lt; technol...@nododos.com &gt; wrote: 



Here you go. Thanks for the help. My riak.conf is mostly stock, except for the 
LevelDB changes. 






From: "Matthew Von-Maszewski" &lt; matth...@basho.com &gt; 
To: "Mr. Technology" &lt; technol...@nododos.com &gt; 
Cc: "riak-users" &lt; riak-users@lists.basho.com &gt; 
Sent: Saturday, June 6, 2015 9:08:00 AM 
Subject: Re: LevelDB 

There is a script macro that puts paths together during program start. I will 
go look at that. 

It would help if you would send your riak.conf file. 

Matthew 



BQ\\_BEGIN

On Jun 5, 2015, at 7:48 PM, Mr. Technology &lt; technol...@nododos.com &gt; wrote: 

After installing Riak 2.1.1 on a 5 node Centos7 based test cluster, I followed 
the instructions at 
http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/ops/advanced/backends/leveldb/ to attempt to 
configure a tiered LevelDB backend. 

My /etc/riak/riak.conf: 

storage\\_backend = leveldb 
leveldb.tiered = 4 
leveldb.tiered.path.fast = /mnt/fast 
leveldb.tiered.path.slow = /mnt/slow 

Upon start, riak crashes with the following message in the log: 

\\*\\* 
{function\\_clause,[{riak\\_kv\\_vnode,terminate,[{bad\\_return\\_value,{stop,{db\\_open,"IO
 error: 
/mnt/fast//var/lib/riak/leveldb/159851741583067506678528028578343455274867621888/LOCK:
 No such file or 
directory"}}},undefined],[{file,"src/riak\\_kv\\_vnode.erl"},{line,1155}]},{riak\\_core\\_vnode,terminate,3,[{file,"src/riak\\_core\\_vnode.erl"},{line,907}]},{gen\\_fsm,terminate,7,[{file,"gen\\_fsm.erl"},{line,597}]},{proc\\_lib,init\\_p\\_do\\_apply,3,[{file,"proc\\_lib.erl"},{line,239}]}]}
 

I assume the error is due to riak trying to write to the bogus path: 

/mnt/fast//var/lib/riak/leveldb/159851741583067506678528028578343455274867621888/LOCK
 

(bogus due to the double slash above) 

Is this a bug, erroneous documentation, or a configuration problem?? I followed 
the example as closely as I could. 


\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_ 
riak-users mailing list 
riak-users@lists.basho.com 
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com 





 

BQ\\_END



\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

