---
title: "Tweaked Riak development process"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-08-26T16:44:48-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12138"
author_name: "John Daily"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-08-26T16:44:48-07:00
---


TL;DR: For improved consistency and easier release testing, Basho is modifying 
the way our engineers use Git and GitHub. This information is primarily of 
interest to anyone who is using our libraries for other projects or who 
experiments with unreleased snapshots of Riak.


Historically, most of Basho's GitHub repositories[1] (including Riak) have used 
one convention for branch structure, while Riak CS has maintained a different 
standard[2], inspired by git-flow[3].

In the interests of unifying our approach and improving the release process, 
all Basho-managed repositories have been converted to use the CS approach.

The most notable change is that the "master" branch, which today undergoes 
active development, will instead reflect the latest stable release. New 
development will be conducted (in the form of pull requests) against a branch 
named "develop".

Additionally, we will introduce a branch named "staging" to some of our 
repositories. This will be a more stable branch for manual testing, with only 
those updates that have passed our automated tests.

A more detailed description of the model is available[4]. Please feel free to 
contact us on this list or via issues on GitHub if you have questions or 
concerns.

[1] https://github.com/basho
[2] https://github.com/basho/riak\\_cs/wiki/Git-Flow
[3] http://nvie.com/posts/a-successful-git-branching-model/
[4] https://github.com/basho/riak/wiki/Basho-repository-management

-John Daily
Technical Evangelist
Basho


\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

