---
title: "RE: Riak Search 2.0"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-03-21T09:24:07-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13866"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13865"
author_name: "Sapre, Meghna A"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-03-21T09:24:07-07:00
---


Thanks, Riak version gives me 2.0.0pre11.
I changed the riak.conf for setting storage backend=leveldb and search=on.
I don't see a separate setting for yokozuna, should it be there?
I was under the assumption (from reading the docs) that 2.0 comes with 
yokozuna, is that the case, or is it something I need to install separately?

Thanks,
Meghna


From: Eric Redmond [mailto:eredm...@basho.com]
Sent: Friday, March 21, 2014 8:53 AM
To: Sapre, Meghna A
Cc: Michael Dillon; riak-users@lists.basho.com
Subject: Re: Riak Search 2.0

Searching that version list is not generally useful if you just want the 
version of the Riak node you're running. Try running "riak version".

As for "Riak Search 2.0", the project that makes it work is called "yokozuna".

Eric


On Mar 20, 2014, at 5:24 PM, "Sapre, Meghna A" 
&gt; wrote:


Thanks, seems to be a mix. Riak\\_search\\_version is '1.4.1-19', is there 2.0 
version for this? If so, how do I get it?

Thanks,
Meghna

From: Michael Dillon 
[mailto:mdillon...@pagefreezer.com]
Sent: Thursday, March 20, 2014 4:25 PM
To: Sapre, Meghna A
Subject: Re: Riak Search 2.0

Try using riak-admin status |grep version |less

and you will see that there are lots of components at different version levels. 
I am running 2.0pre11 and have 1.4.2-456-ge1f5d39 for the kv component.

riak is not one application. It is a suite of applications that work together 
to provide and overall service.

On Thu, Mar 20, 2014 at 2:28 PM, Sapre, Meghna A 
&gt; wrote:
Hi all,
 I recently inherited a Riak dB, so my questions are probably very basic.
The ones I ask are the ones I couldn't find answers to in the docs or online.

1. When I run 'riak-admin status | grep riak\\_kv\\_version', it shows 'riak 1.4.2'.
 The person who had originally done the installation said it was the 2.0 
pre-release version, am I checking the right thing?


Thanks,
Meghna

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com



--
Michael Dillon - Senior Software Engineer
PageFreezer.com
#200 - 311 Water Street
Vancouver, BC V6B 1B8
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

