---
title: "Re: Instability due to HAProxy /ping health checks"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-04-04T07:53:04-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13996"
author_name: "Luke Bakken"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-04-04T07:53:04-07:00
---


Gabriel,

We received information about this incident yesterday and have been
discussing it internally. Thank you for providing such a detailed
diagnosis. There must be something about the default httpchk headers that
triggers a bug.

I'll follow up if we need more information. In the meantime, I'm glad your
custom httpchk string fixed your issue.

--
Luke Bakken
CSE
lbak...@basho.com


On Thu, Apr 3, 2014 at 3:17 PM, Gabriel Littman  wrote:

&gt; Hi All,
&gt;
&gt; I once again return to the bottomless pool of knowledge that is the
&gt; riak mailing list. :)
&gt;
&gt; Recently we've started work to isolate our Riak cluster. (We
&gt; currently host other services on our Riak machines.) Part of that
&gt; work is to put Riak behind HAProxy and have our other services access
&gt; Riak through that. Then on Tuesday Riak started to eat up all of cpu
&gt; and memory, causing it to swap (yes swap is still on we plan to turn
&gt; it off after we isolate riak.) and the load to shoot up. It took a
&gt; while to figure out what was going on but it turns out that what had
&gt; changed was that HAProxy. When we turned of the load balancer and
&gt; restarted Riak it would stay happy but as soon as we turned it (with
&gt; the 'check' option) cpu and memory will slowly creep up until the
&gt; machine is unusable.
&gt;
&gt; It's very confusing since we have already done this work in our
&gt; staging cluster and not had any of these problems. We are going to do
&gt; a more thorough analysis of differences in hardware and configurations
&gt; but we are pretty good about packaging and deploying important
&gt; settings in a standard way.
&gt;
&gt; Also we were not able to reproduce this except by using HAProxy.
&gt; Meaning when we created a script to try to load up /ping and riak
&gt; handled it just fine. When we looked deeper and sniffed the network
&gt; my coworkers noticed that curl and haproxy requests were slightly
&gt; different. When we added some to the header info and used HTTP 1.1
&gt; instead of 1.0 to haproxy it seems to not have the same affect on
&gt; riak.
&gt;
&gt; option httpchk GET /ping HTTP/1.1\\r\\nHost:\\
&gt; riak\\r\\nUser-Agent:\\ curl/7.22.0\\r\\nHost:\\ riak:8098\\r\\nAccept:\\
&gt; \\*/\\*\\r\\n
&gt;
&gt; I've attached a bunch of logs and configurations. Any advice or
&gt; insights would be much appreciated.
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt;
&gt; Gabe
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; More Info:
&gt; riak 1.4.1
&gt; 5 nodes
&gt; nval 2
&gt; 256 partitions
&gt;
&gt; ubuntu 12.0.4
&gt; 12 core system
&gt; 32g mem
&gt; 32g swap
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Some suspicious looking riak-admin top entries (don't really know what
&gt; they mean):
&gt; &lt;6201.16207.0&gt; proc\\_lib:init\\_p/5 '-' 3211097921
&gt; 4455251976 62 riak\\_kv\\_index\\_fsm:update\\_buffer/3
&gt; &lt;6201.1908.0&gt; proc\\_lib:init\\_p/5 '-' 190425738
&gt; 88592 0 riak\\_kv\\_vnode:'-result\\_fun\\_ack/2-fun-0-'
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; &lt;6201.15965.0&gt; proc\\_lib:init\\_p/5 '-' 4156696872
&gt; 3564395400 63 sms:'-values/1-lc$^0/1-0-'/1
&gt; &lt;6201.23152.0&gt; proc\\_lib:init\\_p/5 '-' 3400754909
&gt; 1460972816 99 orddict:update/3
&gt; &lt;6201.1913.0&gt; proc\\_lib:init\\_p/5 '-' 152610162
&gt; 88448 0 gen\\_server:loop/6
&gt; &lt;6201.1654.0&gt; proc\\_lib:init\\_p/5 '-' 125490325
&gt; 55176 0 riak\\_kv\\_vnode:'-result\\_fun\\_ack/2-fun-0-'
&gt; &lt;6201.1450.0&gt; proc\\_lib:init\\_p/5 '-' 124185894
&gt; 34504 0 riak\\_kv\\_vnode:'-result
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

