---
title: "Re: is it possible to use FQDN instead of IP in riak.conf for \"listener.http.$name” field?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-08-04T12:54:14-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16351"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16340"
author_name: "Geoff Clark"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-08-04T12:54:14-07:00
---


Can confirm, we have this set in our production cluster.

On Mon, Aug 3, 2015 at 6:31 AM, Richard Jonas &lt;
richard.jo...@erlang-solutions.com&gt; wrote:

&gt; Hi Roman,
&gt;
&gt; my guess is that you can use 0.0.0.0 as IP address which means "listen on
&gt; every network device", so if the IP address changes you don't need to
&gt; change anything in the config. Please double check this.
&gt;
&gt; Richard
&gt;
&gt; On Wed, Jul 22, 2015 at 7:03 PM, Nick Marino  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi Roman,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I took a quick look at the riak\\_api code, and unfortunately it doesn't
&gt;&gt; look like there's an easy way to do this right now. The code assumes you'll
&gt;&gt; enter an IP address, and there's no place where it would attempt to resolve
&gt;&gt; a hostname if you passed that in instead.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; That said, this does seem like it would be a nice feature to have, and
&gt;&gt; probably shouldn't be terribly difficult to implement. If you have a GitHub
&gt;&gt; account you could try logging a feature request under the issues section
&gt;&gt; for the riak\\_api project (https://github.com/basho/riak\\_api). I can't
&gt;&gt; make any guarantees as to whether/when anyone will have time to look into
&gt;&gt; it, but hopefully it's something that could be done in the short to medium
&gt;&gt; term. If you don't have a GitHub account and would like me to enter this
&gt;&gt; for you, send me an email and I can get a request filed.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; In the mean time, your best bet is probably to write a script to
&gt;&gt; automatically regenerate your config file with the correct IP addresses as
&gt;&gt; needed. Not the prettiest solution, but unfortunately that's the best
&gt;&gt; suggestion I have for the time being.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt; Nick
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Mon, Jul 20, 2015 at 4:48 PM, ROMAN SHESTAKOV &lt;
&gt;&gt; romanshesta...@yahoo.co.uk&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Hello,
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; is there any way to specify in riak.conf in field "listener.http.$name”
&gt;&gt;&gt; FQDN instead of IP address?
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;listener.http.$name This is the IP address and TCP port to which the
&gt;&gt;&gt; Riak HTTP interface will bind. {"127.0.0.1",8098}&lt;&lt;&lt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; why is it required to use IP address instead of a host name? In my
&gt;&gt;&gt; setting RIAK\\_KV is deployed on dynamic VMs and IP could be changed if the
&gt;&gt;&gt; VM is launched on a different hypervisor.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Regards, Roman
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Richard Jonas
&gt; Erlang Solutions Hungary Kft
&gt;
&gt; Address:
&gt; Riverpark Office K.32
&gt; Közraktár street 32. 3/1.
&gt; 1093 Budapest
&gt; Hungary
&gt; Phone/fax:
&gt; +36-1-7000-654
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

