---
title: "Re: Language Detection Riak Search"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2016-02-21T10:45:56-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg17035"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg17034"
author_name: "Colin Walker"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2016-02-21T10:45:56-08:00
---


Update: Please ignore the last part of my question. It is not taking more
than a minute to index a single record, that's just bad logging on my part
:) Everything is actually operating smoothly and a large document with
language indexing enabled only adds about 0.5 milliseconds.

On Sun, Feb 21, 2016 at 10:23 AM, Colin Walker  wrote:

&gt; Hello again everyone,
&gt;
&gt; Since I am using Java, I ended up going with a solution where I just used
&gt; the langdetect library right in my Java code and simply appended the
&gt; language code to the strings I want to be able to search. I've found it's
&gt; actually much easier than configuring the update request handlers since I
&gt; can test and see what's going on with my code much more easily. I'm not
&gt; sure what the appetite is for others but I won't be needing the extracting
&gt; request handlers feature.
&gt;
&gt; After enabling this, however, I began to get bad performance, in the range
&gt; of over 1 minute for insertions. I am assuming this is a Solr issue since
&gt; the performance issues only occur on documents that are indexed and which
&gt; are being matched to dynamic language fields. Has anyone seen similar
&gt; performance issues when mapping language specific fields?
&gt;
&gt; Cheers,
&gt;
&gt; Colin Walker
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Tue, Feb 16, 2016 at 3:56 PM, Colin Walker  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hey everyone,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I am trying to enable language detection in Solr for my Riak nodes. As
&gt;&gt; far as I know this involves adding an extracting request handler in the
&gt;&gt; solrconfig.xml for each Yokozuna index I would like to have the handler
&gt;&gt; applied to on each node.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Is there an easy way to configure this in Yokozuna for all nodes? Has
&gt;&gt; anyone worked through adding request handlers before?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Colin Walker
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

