---
title: "Re: Is Riak dead?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2017-07-14T15:28:46-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg18361"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg18353"
author_name: "lloyd"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2017-07-14T15:28:46-07:00
---


Hello,
 
Rackspace email has had serious issues, so I must have missed Alexander's 
latest post. But thanks to Russell's post, here are a few thoughts on several 
of Alexander's points:
 
I've never used slack and have minimal experience with IRC, but would be happy 
to adapt to any forum that would support serious dialogue and momentum toward 
consensus.
 
The problem is how to define and keep focus on the most immediate and concerns 
and issues. Unfortunately mailing list threads have a way of wandering off 
track.
 
Legal clarification is certainly high priority. It would be good to go through 
the Riak licenses to see what they do and do not permit. 

Even better if an IP attorney could share with the community an analysis. 
Perhaps there's a generous Riak corporate user out there willing to step up to 
the task. 
 
Here's info re: the current Basho Technologies lawsuit:
 
Basho Suit Stays On Course Despite Defense Counsel Chaos
https://www.law360.com/articles/917913/basho-suit-stays-on-course-despite-defense-counsel-chaos

This spat could go on for awhile and who knows who'll be left standing to pick 
up the pieces and if they'll be of mind to do so.

Meanwhile, many companies and developers who have adopted Riak products are 
left without support and under a big black cloud of uncertainty.

So the second, priority, seems to me, is to rally the existing community--- 
identify who and how many in the community have enough vested interest to work 
toward sustainability, continued availability, and future development of the 
open source Riak code. 

It may be little more than a holding action until the Basho Tech lawsuit is 
settled. But uncertainty has a way of devolving into apathy and loss of 
interest.

With regard to governance, it probably is too soon to do much more than define 
the options and weigh the pros and cons.

My assumption is that there are smart people with serious ideas and a vested 
interest out there. The question is, how can we best get the pot boiling?

All the best,

Lloyd
 
-----Original Message-----
From: "Russell Brown" 
Sent: Friday, July 14, 2017 12:32pm
To: "Alexander Sicular" 
Cc: ll...@writersglen.com, "Senthilkumar Peelikkampatti" , 
"riak-users" 
Subject: Re: Is Riak dead?



On 14 Jul 2017, at 17:26, Alexander Sicular  wrote:

&gt; I love your enthusiasm Lloyd. How about starting with a slack channel
&gt; and take it from there…

What’s wrong with the existing IRC channel?

&gt; 
&gt; Things that would kinda need to happen for Riak to grow beyond where it is 
&gt; now:

Grow? Surely we’re just talking survival and maintenance in the first instance. 
Security for those orgs that depend on it. Growth was the problem, right?

&gt; 
&gt; - complete rebranding. Basho is dead. The term "Riak" may be encumbered.

What do you mean “encumbered”? Riak is the name of an Apache2 licensed open 
source database, so it can continue to be used to describe that apache 2 
licensed database, please don’t spread FUD.

&gt; - new everything. name. domain. github repo. bla bla bla.

Again, I don’t agree. Why a new name? Obviously the basho domain is off limits, 
but why does that matter, any great content on there? Or just cartoon guys?

Numerous orgs already have full forks of all repos, and all the issues copied, 
and pull request histories etc. This wasn’t a surprise.

&gt; 
&gt; Instead of a framework, how can the Riak codebase actually become an
&gt; Apache project?

Personally not sure of the benefit of being an apache project.

Russell

&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Thu, Jul 13, 2017 at 8:06 PM,  wrote:
&gt;&gt; Hi,
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; If there is enough interest, I'd be happy to do the legwork in Boston and
&gt;&gt; put up a very modest contribution toward up-front cost with hope of recovery
&gt;&gt; through registrations.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Boston has conference spaces of all sizes. I would imagine a conference on
&gt;&gt; the future of open-source Riak would be a fairly intimate group. I'm also
&gt;&gt; imagining a fairly bare-bones event to minimize cost of registration.
&gt;&gt; Registration cost should be just enough to cover the venue and nibbles.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Just to kick off brain-storming:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 1. Say two days--- Friday and Saturday
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 2. Friday: Invite short (20 minute) proposals on key topics
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; a. Clarifying legal issues
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; b. Technical road map
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; c. Organizational framework; e.g. ala Apache Foundation or some such
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; d. Marketing; e.g. expanding the open-source community
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 3. Saturday (or Saturday morning)
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Discussion sessions with goal of recommendations for moving forward
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; How to get from here to there:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 1. Is there enough interest on the mailing list?
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 2. How can we pin down an agenda?
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 3. Can we get corporate sponsorships to minimize registration?
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 4. How can we most widely promote the event?
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 5. What else?
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; All the best,
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Lloyd
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; -----Original Message-----
&gt;&gt; From: "Russell Brown" 
&gt;&gt; Sent: Thursday, July 13, 2017 4:00pm
&gt;&gt; To: ll...@writersglen.com
&gt;&gt; Cc: "riak-users" , "Senthilkumar Peelikkampatti"
&gt;&gt; , "Russell Brown" 
&gt;&gt; Subject: Re: Is Riak dead?
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; We have talked about it. Let's do it!
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On Jul 13, 2017 7:56 PM, ll...@writersglen.com wrote:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Hmmm--- I wonder if anyone has given thought to a conference focused on the
&gt;&gt; future of open-source Riak?
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; I'm sure there are many good ideas out there re: roadmap and governance.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; It's just too great not to be worth deep thought and prudent action.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; All the best,
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; LRP
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; -----Original Message-----
&gt;&gt; From: "Russell Brown" 
&gt;&gt; Sent: Thursday, July 13, 2017 12:40pm
&gt;&gt; To: "Senthilkumar Peelikkampatti" 
&gt;&gt; Cc: "riak-users" 
&gt;&gt; Subject: Re: Is Riak dead?
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Hi Senthilkumar,
&gt;&gt; No Riak is not dead. It’s parent company, Basho is dead. And they kept the
&gt;&gt; keys. There are numerous forks that are being worked on. Hopefully something
&gt;&gt; that is a canonical, community backed fork will emerge. Past mailing list
&gt;&gt; posts show strong support from large commercial and govt. organisations.
&gt;&gt; Riak is open source and will continue to be critical infrastructure for
&gt;&gt; numerous organisation in its niche for some time.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; There are also a few support organisations springing up, as well as the
&gt;&gt; existing partners (Erlang Solutions, Trifork etc.) If you’re asking me, this
&gt;&gt; could be a very good thing for Riak in the medium to long term. It and it’s
&gt;&gt; users and community were served very badly by Basho these last couple of
&gt;&gt; years. It’s a little trodden under, but no way dead. Give it a little time
&gt;&gt; to bounce back.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Cheers
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Russell
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On 11 Jul 2017, at 08:15, Senthilkumar Peelikkampatti 
&gt;&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Is Riak dead? No new activities on Riak GitHub repo.
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; https://github.com/basho/riak\\_kv/pulse/monthly
&gt;&gt;&gt; https://github.com/basho/riak/pulse/monthly
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt;&gt; Senthil
&gt;&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; 




\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

