---
title: "Re: [Announcement] Official Riak Node.js client released."
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-04-02T06:19:36-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15954"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15953"
author_name: "Brian Roach"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-04-02T06:19:36-07:00
---


Jose,

See: http://basho.github.io/riak-nodejs-client/classes/RiakObject.html

As noted in the docs for StoreValue and FetchValue, you can use
RiakObject instead of a plain string or JS object, and metadata is the
specific reason.

That said, it would appear I forgot about links as link walking is a
deprecated feature in Riak 2.0. I apologize for the oversight and will
add them.

As for explicit examples beyond the normal API docs, our various pages
on docs.bacho.com are being updated to include node.js and will be
done soon.

Thanks!
- Brian Roach





On Thu, Apr 2, 2015 at 5:47 AM, Jose G. Quenum
 wrote:
&gt; Dear Brian,
&gt; Thank you very much for sharing this link. I have been looking for a riak 
&gt; client for node.js that is compatible with riak 2.0.
&gt; However, having glanced at it I noticed that there was no method to access 
&gt; the meta information. This is good for link manipulation, for example. As 
&gt; well in order to update an object the meta information could be useful. As a 
&gt; disclaimer here, I should mention that I have been using riak-js to access 
&gt; riak 1.4. Now I'd like to transition to riak 2.0 and I am looking for the 
&gt; right tools.
&gt;
&gt; Overall, where can one find more documentation and more concrete examples 
&gt; about how to manipulate riak with this client.
&gt; Thanks & regards,
&gt; Jose
&gt;
&gt; Sent from my iPad
&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Apr 2, 2015, at 2:36 AM, Brian Roach  wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Greetings Riak Users!
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Today we released the official Node.js client for Riak.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; It's available via npm:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; https://www.npmjs.com/package/basho-riak-client
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; The github repo can be found here:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; https://github.com/basho/riak-nodejs-client
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; API docs are published here:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; http://basho.github.io/riak-nodejs-client/classes/Client.html
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks!
&gt;&gt; - Brian Roach
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

