---
title: "RE: Getting basho_bench to work."
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-03-20T12:22:31-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10506"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg10504"
author_name: "Kevin Burton"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-03-20T12:22:31-07:00
---


That changed the error message but I am still not getting started.

 

From: Dan Reverri [mailto:d...@basho.com] 
Sent: Wednesday, March 20, 2013 2:14 PM
To: Mark Phillips
Cc: Kevin Burton; riak-users@lists.basho.com
Subject: Re: Getting basho\\_bench to work.

 

The error indicates that the basho\\_bench erlang node failed to start
net\\_kernel because the node name was invalid. It looks like the
"basho\\_bench\\_measurement\\_erlangvm" module is looking for a "mynode" config
option to set the name during net\\_kernel start.

 

Can you try adding "{mynode, 'basho\\_bench@127.0.0.1'}." to your basho\\_bench
config?

 

Thank you,

Dan

 




Daniel Reverri
Client Architect
Basho Technologies, Inc.
d...@basho.com

 

On Wed, Mar 20, 2013 at 11:56 AM, Mark Phillips  wrote:

Hey Kevin,

Any chance you can pop into #riak on freenode? We can do this
trouble-shooting in real time. :)

Mark


On Wed, Mar 20, 2013 at 11:42 AM, Kevin Burton 
wrote:
&gt; So your theory is the the 'check the configuration' is not from
basho\\_bench
&gt; but from erlang. What configuration needs to change? The link mentions
&gt; running a deamon that maps long names to short names. Do I need that? As
far
&gt; as I can tell I am using the "standard" naming convetion
&gt; (r...@xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx). Do you think this is a 'long name'?
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; From: Roberto Aloi [mailto:prof...@gmail.com]
&gt; Sent: Wednesday, March 20, 2013 1:16 PM
&gt; To: Kevin Burton
&gt; Cc: riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Subject: Re: Getting basho\\_bench to work.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Hi,
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; At a glance, it looks like the basho\\_bench node couldn't start correctly
&gt; with a longname.
&gt;
&gt; How are you starting basho\\_bench?
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; This issue could be due to a misconfiguration in the hostname for your
&gt; machine.
&gt;
&gt; How do your /etc/hosts and /etc/hostname look like?
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; For information about shortnames and longnames in Erlang:
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
http://www.snookles.com/erlang-docs/R15B03/doc/reference\\_manual/distributed.
html
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Wed, Mar 20, 2013 at 6:36 PM, Kevin Burton 
&gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt; I reiterate the request to see what is wrong with my basho\\_bench
&gt; configuration. I have attached the configuration as well as the output.
Any
&gt; ideas as to what is wrong would be greatly appreciated. I basically used
&gt; the templates in the 'examples' folder but apparently there is something
&gt; wrong.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Roberto Aloi
&gt; ---
&gt; Website: http://roberto-aloi.com
&gt; Twitter: @robertoaloi
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

 



bench.config
Description: XML document

bench.out
Description: Binary data
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

