---
title: "Re: Riak for streaming video"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-06-29T05:00:07-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14408"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14392"
author_name: "Alex De la rosa"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-06-29T05:00:07-07:00
---


Hi there,

One more question regarding Riak CS, does it behave like standard Riak?
storing 3 copies (default) and needing a minimum of 5 servers to operate?

Cheers,
Alex


On Fri, Jun 27, 2014 at 2:43 AM, Jared Morrow  wrote:

&gt; Luwak is definitely EOL'd and RiakCS is our large object store going
&gt; forward. It is a far superior design compared to Luwak and handles very
&gt; large file sizes.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Thursday, June 26, 2014, Jason Campbell  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Riak CS is designed to be the same interface as Amazon S3. It can be run
&gt;&gt; anywhere you can run Riak.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Think of it as a way to run your own S3.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I think the hard limit on Riak objects is 50MB, but the recommended size
&gt;&gt; is less than 1MB per object. The main reason for that is latency. It's
&gt;&gt; faster to get 100x1MB chunks from the entire cluster than it is to get
&gt;&gt; 1x100MB chunk from a single server. It's also easier for disks to pull a
&gt;&gt; 1MB object without delaying any other requests than pulling a 100MB object,
&gt;&gt; which may end up queuing other requests made after.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; There used to be a project called luwak that was built into Riak and
&gt;&gt; handled chunking files like this, but it has been EOL'd. Perhaps someone
&gt;&gt; can shed some light on this. Is RiakCS the final solution for binary
&gt;&gt; storage? Or is there another way to store larger objects in Riak?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; RiakCS is wonderful, but it does seem overkill for some uses where you
&gt;&gt; don't need to expose an S3 interface, don't need the S3 permission
&gt;&gt; structure, and really just want file storage.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; ----- Original Message -----
&gt;&gt; From: "Alex De la rosa" 
&gt;&gt; To: "Hector Castro" 
&gt;&gt; Cc: "riak-users" 
&gt;&gt; Sent: Friday, 27 June, 2014 6:55:13 AM
&gt;&gt; Subject: Re: Riak for streaming video
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi Hector,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks for your response :) highly appreciated. I have more questions
&gt;&gt; though.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Riak CS has to be implemented in Amazon S3? Or can I house it myself with
&gt;&gt; own managed servers?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; What is the limit for an object in Standard Riak? Large objects should go
&gt;&gt; to Riak CS, but what would be a limit for the Standard Riak? I may want to
&gt;&gt; save pictures, for example, in binary data... not a RAW version, but like
&gt;&gt; processed photo uploads from users... I think Standard Riak can hold that
&gt;&gt; with no problem, but it would be good to know the size limit for a key's
&gt;&gt; content.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt; Alex
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Thu, Jun 26, 2014 at 10:45 PM, Hector Castro &lt; hec...@basho.com &gt;
&gt;&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hey Alex,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; My response are inline below.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; Hector
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Thu, Jun 26, 2014 at 4:26 PM, Alex De la rosa
&gt;&gt; &lt; alex.rosa....@gmail.com &gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt; &gt; Hi Hector,
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; I see, I always thought that Riak CS was the same as Riak just that you
&gt;&gt; run
&gt;&gt; &gt; it in Amazon S3... they are actually different...
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Correct, but it is important to note that Riak is still at the core of
&gt;&gt; Riak CS.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; So... if I have a social network and one of the features is that they
&gt;&gt; can
&gt;&gt; &gt; share video, I would use a normal Riak cluster for the webapp and data
&gt;&gt; and a
&gt;&gt; &gt; Riak CS cluster for the video storage/streaming... am I right?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; That seems like a reasonable conclusion.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Riak is fundamentally a distributed key/value store for low latency
&gt;&gt; access to smaller pieces of data. Riak CS is an S3/Swift
&gt;&gt; API-compatible object storage platform with a little higher request
&gt;&gt; latency, but also the added ability to house very large objects
&gt;&gt; (backups, raw images, video).
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; By the way, couldn't this "range header" be implemented in standard
&gt;&gt; Riak?
&gt;&gt; &gt; might be a good thing to have so you don't need 2 clusters for this
&gt;&gt; matter.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; It could some day. Right now, separating the clusters is best because
&gt;&gt; tuning a single cluster for both use cases would be difficult.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt; &gt; Alex
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; On Thu, Jun 26, 2014 at 9:28 PM, Hector Castro &lt; hec...@basho.com &gt;
&gt;&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; Hi Alex,
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; For this type of problem, you may want to look into Riak CS. [0] It is
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; an object storage platform built on top of Riak.
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; When you GET an object from Riak CS, you can specify a Range header to
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; get the object by its byte offset. [1]
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; Hector
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; [0] http://docs.basho.com/riakcs/latest/
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; [1]
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riakcs/latest/references/apis/storage/s3/RiakCS-GET-Object/#Examples
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; On Thu, Jun 26, 2014 at 3:22 PM, Alex De la rosa
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; &lt; alex.rosa....@gmail.com &gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; Hi there,
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; Imagine that I want to use Riak for a video service like Youtube and
&gt;&gt; I
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; save
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; the video file in Riak... is there a way to stream the contents of 1
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; key? I
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; know we can stream keys... but what about its content?
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; It would be pretty troublesome to have to wait for the full data to
&gt;&gt; be
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; downloaded $bucket-&gt;get('myvideo') to be able to serve it... as they
&gt;&gt; can
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; be
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; pretty big files.
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; Is there any recommendation to store/get big files like videos? or it
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; would
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; be better to use some other system than Riak for the job?
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; Alex
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

