---
title: "Re: Riak 2.0 release schedule?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-11-08T14:55:01-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12907"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12905"
author_name: "Jared Morrow"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-11-08T14:55:01-08:00
---


Monday.


Just kidding. Let me state right up front that we tend to not promise any
dates. We release Riak versions when we believe they are done, tested
every way we know how, and generally are the highest quality. Something
like 2.0 is even worse because there are so many new major features.

Given that incredible initial warning that everything I'm about to say
should be taken with a grain of salt... We plan to release final 2.0 in the
first quarter of 2014. My gut feeling will be in the Jan-Feb timeframe,
but March is not out of the question. 1.4 was pretty close to when we
thought it would come out +/- weeks, but 1.3 was off by a few months due to
a major bug found in the Erlang VM during our 1.3 testing. So if things go
as expected, beginning of 2014 is our plan. If some major event happens or
some crazy bug is found, this of course could slip.

I think I've sufficiently covered this email with escape hatches.

Hope that helped a little bit,
-Jared




On Fri, Nov 8, 2013 at 1:49 PM, N. Tucker &lt;
ntucker-ml-riak-us...@august20th.com&gt; wrote:

&gt; Hi Basho folks. I've been looking at some of the new stuff in Riak
&gt; 2.0 and am very excited about the possibility of replacing my aging
&gt; and borderline-overloaded Solr index with a Yokozuna-powered Riak
&gt; cluster. I'll be downloading the 2.0 Technical Preview to experiment
&gt; with, but I'm curious just how far off (in rough terms, obviously) a
&gt; production-ready Riak2.0/Yokozuna is. Have any announcements about
&gt; the target release date been made? I haven't seen any. Apologies if
&gt; it's been mentioned here, but I looked through the list archives and
&gt; didn't see it.
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

