---
title: "Re: yokozuna Issues"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-02-19T07:23:32-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13670"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13650"
author_name: "Hector Castro"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-02-19T07:23:32-08:00
---


Bryce,

There appears to be an incompatibility with the JVM version you have
available on the system. Can you please provide the output of `java
-version`?

FWIW, we've been using Oracle JDK 7u25 internally for testing.

--
Hector


On Thu, Feb 13, 2014 at 12:07 PM, Bryce Verdier  wrote:
&gt; Thanks for the quick response Tom,
&gt;
&gt; I was mostly trying to see if anyone else was has had similar issues and
&gt; might be able to propose a quick fix. Since that doesn't seem to be the case
&gt; here are clean log files from a failed startup with search=on in riak.conf.
&gt; This is an updated version of fedora19 (though I was able to reproduce on
&gt; clean install of Centos6.5), with 2pre11 installed.
&gt;
&gt; Please let me know if there is anything else you want me to test or provide.
&gt; I'm happy to help.
&gt;
&gt; Warm regards,
&gt; Bryce
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On 02/12/2014 08:10 PM, Tom Santero wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Hi Bryce,
&gt;
&gt; If you share the errors you're seeing in the logs it might help us better
&gt; identify the issue you're running into.
&gt;
&gt; Cheers,
&gt; Tom
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Thu, Feb 13, 2014 at 3:46 AM, Bryce  wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Has anyone else had problems with a fresh install of RHEL6 or fedora 19,
&gt;&gt; riak2pre11, and turning search "on"?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; The defaults start riak just fine on both distros. But when I change
&gt;&gt; search to "on" some of the log files get a fair amount of java related
&gt;&gt; errors (both with java installed and not... if that matters).I went looking
&gt;&gt; through the riak issues on github, but wasn't able to find anything. I
&gt;&gt; assume I'm missing some kind of dependency. I just can't seem to find my
&gt;&gt; problem or a fix anywhere.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks in advance,
&gt;&gt; Bryce
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

