---
title: "Re: Exploring Riak, need to confirm throughput"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-04-04T13:15:58-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10697"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg10649"
author_name: "Matthew MacClary"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-04-04T13:15:58-07:00
---


Thanks for the feedback. I made two changes to my test setup and saw better
throughput:

1) Don't write to the same key over and over. Updating a key appears to be
a lot slower than creating a new key

2) I used parallel PUTs

The throughput I was measuring before was about 26MB/s on localhost. With
these changes it went to around 200MB/s on a disk that can write at about
480MB/s. That is more the type of performance I need for the data store we
have in mind. I am going to proceed with testing on 8 nodes with RAID0
drives.

Here are some details of the testing I did if it will help others. I tried
the test with 1MB, 10MB, and 20MB binary data. I didn't notice a big signal
with regard to larger objects slowing things down.

wget
http://downloads.basho.com.s3-website-us-east-1.amazonaws.com/riak/1.2/1.2.1/rhel/5/riak-1.2.1-1.el5.x86\\_64.rpm

sudo rpm -Uvh riak-1.2.1-1.el5.x86\\_64.rpm
/usr/sbin/riak start
mkdir data-dir && cd data-dir
seq -w 0 100 | parallel dd if=/dev/zero of={}.10meg bs=8k count=1280
http\\_proxy= # don’t contact proxy
time find . -name \\\\*.10meg | parallel -j8 -n1 wget --post-file {}
http://127.0.0.1:8098/riak/test1/{}

During these tests I saw beam.smp jumping to 350-550 while watching %CPU
under top. When I was seeing slower thoughput beam.smp was using much less
CPU.

Kind regards,

-Matt

On Wed, Apr 3, 2013 at 7:20 AM, Reid Draper  wrote:

&gt; inline:
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Apr 2, 2013, at 6:48 PM, Matthew MacClary &lt;
&gt; maccl...@lifetime.oregonstate.edu&gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Hi all, I am new to this list. Thanks for taking the time to read my
&gt; questions! I just want to know if the data throughput I am seeing is
&gt; expected for the bitcask backend or if it is too low.
&gt;
&gt; I am doing the preliminary feasibility study to decide if we should
&gt; implement a Riak data store. Our application involves rendering chunks of
&gt; data that range in size from about 1MB-9MB or so. This rendering work is
&gt; CPU intensive so it is spread over a bunch of compute nodes which write the
&gt; output into a data store.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Riak is not intended to store objects of this size, not at the moment
&gt; anyway. Riak CS [1], on the other hand, can store files up to several TB.
&gt; That being said, Riak CS may or may not have other qualities you desire.
&gt; It's a known issue [2] that the Riak object size limitations should be
&gt; better documented.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; After rendering, a second process consumes that data chunks from the data
&gt; store at a rate of about 480MB/s in a streaming configuration so there is &gt;
&gt; 480MB/s of new data coming in at the same time the data is being read.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Is this a single-socket, or is there some concurrency here?
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; My testing so far involves a one node cluster on a dev box. What I wanted
&gt; to show is that Riak writes were limited by the hard disk throughput. So
&gt; far I haven't seen writes to localhost come anywhere close to the hard disk
&gt; throughput:
&gt;
&gt; $ MYFILE=/tmp/output.png
&gt; $ dd if=/dev/zero of=$MYFILE bs=8k count=256k
&gt; 262144+0 records in
&gt; 262144+0 records out
&gt; 2147483648 bytes (2.1 GB) copied, 4.48906 seconds, 478 MB/s
&gt; $ rm $MYFILE
&gt;
&gt; So the hard disk throughput is around 478MB/s for this simple write test.
&gt;
&gt; The next test I did was to load a 39MB binary file into my one node
&gt; cluster. I used a script to do 12 POSTs with curl and 12 POSTSs with wget.
&gt;
&gt; curl --tcp-nodelay -XPOST http://${IP}:${PORT}/riak/test/file3 \\
&gt; -H "Content-Type:application/octet-stream" \\
&gt; --data-binary @${UPLOAD\\_FILE} \\
&gt; --write-out "%{speed\\_upload}\\n"
&gt;
&gt; wget --post-file ${UPLOAD\\_FILE} http://127.0.0.1:8098/riak/test/file1
&gt;
&gt; What I found was that I could get only about 26MB/s with this command line
&gt; testing. Does this seam about right? Should I see an 18x slow down over the
&gt; write speed of the disk drive?
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Was this running the 24 (12 \\* 2) uploads in serial or parallel? With a
&gt; single-threaded workload, you're unlikely to get Riak to be able to
&gt; saturate a disk. Furthermore, there are design decisions in Riak at the
&gt; moment that make it less than optimal for single objects of 39MB.
&gt; Single-object high throughput (measured in MB) is more in the wheelhouse of
&gt; Riak CS than Riak on it's own, which is primarily designed for low-latency
&gt; and high-throughput (measured in ops/sec). One of the ways that Riak CS
&gt; achieves this on top of Riak is by introducing concurrency between the
&gt; end-user and Riak.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Thanks for your comments on my application and test approach!
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Hope this helps,
&gt; Reid
&gt;
&gt; [1] http://docs.basho.com/riakcs/latest/
&gt; [2] https://github.com/basho/basho\\_docs/issues/256
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; -Matt
&gt;
&gt; -----------------------------------------------
&gt; Dev Environment Details:
&gt; dev box running RHEL6.2, 12 cores, 48GB, 6Gb/s SAS 15k HD
&gt; Riak 1.2.1 from
&gt; http://downloads.basho.com.s3-website-us-east-1.amazonaws.com/riak/1.2/1.2.1/rhel/5/riak-1.2.1-1.el5.x86\\_64.rpm
&gt; n\\_val=1
&gt; r=1
&gt; w=1
&gt; backend=bitcask
&gt;
&gt; Deploy Environment Details:
&gt; Node to node bandwidth &gt; 40Gb/s
&gt; similar config for node servers
&gt; n\\_val=3
&gt; r=1
&gt; w=1
&gt; backend=?
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

