---
title: "Re: Link Walking and Security"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-01-21T07:41:55-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15555"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15548"
author_name: "José Ghislain Quenum"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-01-21T07:41:55-08:00
---


thanks again for your clarifications and pointers. I will take a look at
them. There is just one point that you left out. Will there still be the
links entry in the object meta so that I can store links and walk them
manually (using MR)? Or will this functionality completely disappear with
link walking being weed out?
José

On Wed, Jan 21, 2015 at 5:34 PM, Christopher Meiklejohn &lt;
cmeiklej...@basho.com&gt; wrote:

&gt;
&gt; On Jan 21, 2015, at 1:23 PM, José Ghislain Quenum &lt;
&gt; jose.que...@googlemail.com&gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Thanks Chris for your email. MR is the way I do my link walking actually.
&gt; However, I was assuming that the links entry in the meta part of an object
&gt; was going to disappear. Please correct me on that if I am wrong. Otherwise
&gt; I should be just fine then.
&gt; On the other hand I did consider using the new data types, but then found
&gt; out that they were not compatible with functionalities such as 2i, etc. Any
&gt; pointers on that?
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; 2i does not currently support CRDTs; however MapReduce and Yokozuna do.
&gt;
&gt; MapReduce contains no first class support for CRDTs, but I would imagine
&gt; that you could write an Erlang MapReduce job to iterate the data structures
&gt; directly; this is suboptimal, but should be possible.
&gt;
&gt; Search has first class support, and has Solr extractors for all of the
&gt; data types. You can use this to simulate 2i behavior with Yokozuna.
&gt;
&gt; Here’s an example in Erlang of how to use YZ with CRDTs:
&gt; https://github.com/basho/riak\\_test/blob/master/tests/yz\\_crdt.erl
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; - Chris
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

