---
title: "Re: CorrugatedIron needs a new home"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-05-06T18:40:23-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14181"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14180"
author_name: "OJ Reeves"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-05-06T18:40:23-07:00
---


Jeremiah has summed it up rather nicely. I'd just like to back it up by
saying that I am also happy to help with transition to a new home. While CI
isn't a priority for me any more, I'd still like to see it live on.

Cheers
OJ


On Wed, May 7, 2014 at 6:05 AM, Jeremiah Peschka  wrote:

&gt; At this point it's been 8 months since the last full release of
&gt; CorrugatedIron[1]. Development has continued since then, but the pace has
&gt; slowed down considerably.
&gt;
&gt; ## The Life Of A Consultant
&gt;
&gt; As a consultant, you're called upon to be a deep specialist in one
&gt; technology.
&gt;
&gt; OJ Reeves[2] and I started this project because we were both interested in
&gt; becoming specialists in Riak. We had similar experience. We both worked on
&gt; Microsoft platforms - OJ with C# and me with SQL Server.
&gt;
&gt; As time passed, though, we both focused more and more on technologies that
&gt; weren't Riak. OJ veered off into security and I continued to dive deeper
&gt; into the world of SQL Server. Over time, our interests were pulled in other
&gt; directions.
&gt;
&gt; It's difficult to find the time to work on an extracurricular project even
&gt; when everyone is interested in supporting the project. It's harder when you
&gt; both know that the other person's passions lie elsewhere.
&gt;
&gt; ## The State of the Game
&gt;
&gt; As of today, we've implemented 80% of the features that are necessary to
&gt; support Riak 2.0 on the `develop` branch of CorrugatedIron. The project is
&gt; in relatively rough shape and neither one of us have committed code in
&gt; several months.
&gt;
&gt; ## Looking for Contributors
&gt;
&gt; We couldn't have foreseen this when we started, or even even 6 months ago,
&gt; but both OJ and I are no longer able to actively maintain CorrugatedIron.
&gt;
&gt; We're looking for contributors to help us with the maintenance and
&gt; development of CorrugatedIron. In short: \\*\\*CorrugatedIron needs a new
&gt; home\\*\\*.
&gt;
&gt; Working on CorrugatedIron has been a lot of fun, but priorities have
&gt; changed and it's time to move on and leave full time development to folks
&gt; who have the time and energy to work on it.
&gt;
&gt; If you're interested in picking on where we left off, email me at &lt;
&gt; jeremiah.pesc...@gmail.com&gt; and let me know that you're interested. I'm
&gt; more than happy to help make this transition happen smoothly and painlessly.
&gt;
&gt; [1]: http://github.com/DistributedNonsense/CorrugatedIron
&gt; [2]: http://buffered.io/
&gt;
&gt; ---
&gt; Jeremiah Peschka - Managing Director, Brent Ozar Unlimited
&gt; MCSE: Data Platform, MVP
&gt; Cloudera Certified Developer for Apache Hadoop
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;


-- 

OJ Reeves | @TheColonial  | +61 431 952
586 | http://buffered.io/
PGP 4096R/1FAA5749 | 4EAE 350E 13FE 7584 FFC8 B97D 49EE E751 1FAA 5749
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

