---
title: "Re: [ANN] Riak 1.3 Released"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-02-21T08:24:24-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10182"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg10181"
author_name: "Simon Effenberg"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-02-21T08:24:24-08:00
---


Thx. I see that the problem is only in the script. If you're using
"riak attach" it cries about the low ulimit but that's not true for the
riak process itself. So a little bit confusing but no real error.

Cheers,
Simon

On Thu, 21 Feb 2013 09:09:40 -0700
Jared Morrow  wrote:

&gt; That warning comes from the shell script wrapper that runs starts / stops
&gt; Riak, so if the shell is reporting a ulimit lower than 4096 you'll get that
&gt; warning. A good way to test for sure what ulimit Riak is seeing is to do
&gt; the following:
&gt; 
&gt; \\* do a riak console to start in interactive mode
&gt; \\* when startup finishes, type os:cmd('ulimit -n').
&gt; 
&gt; You should see something like:
&gt; 
&gt; (dev1@127.0.0.1)1&gt; os:cmd('ulimit -n').
&gt; "16384\\n"
&gt; (dev1@127.0.0.1)2&gt;
&gt; 
&gt; If it indeed prints out the correct ulimit, you can easily modify the
&gt; riakscript to not warn you.
&gt; 
&gt; -Jared
&gt; 
&gt; On Thu, Feb 21, 2013 at 9:00 AM, Simon Effenberg
&gt; wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; &gt; Cool!
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; But now I see this WARNING:
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; WARNING: ulimit -n is 1024; 4096 is the recommended minimum
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; but I created a /etc/default/riak file setting ulimit -n to 30000 and
&gt; &gt; also a
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; cat /proc//limits shows the 30000
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; did I do something wrong?
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Cheers,
&gt; &gt; Simon
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; On Thu, 21 Feb 2013 09:24:52 -0500
&gt; &gt; Tom Santero  wrote:
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; Here Ye! Here Ye!
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; The Basho Engineering team is thrilled to announced that Riak 1.3 is
&gt; &gt; &gt; official and ready for your production systems. Without further adieu:
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; - Complete release notes:
&gt; &gt; &gt; https://github.com/basho/riak/blob/1.3/RELEASE-NOTES.md
&gt; &gt; &gt; - 1.3 downloads and documentation:
&gt; &gt; &gt; http://docs.basho.com/riak/1.3.0/downloads/
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; If you've been following the commits or have read the release notes for
&gt; &gt; the
&gt; &gt; &gt; first four RCs, you know this release is well worth the wait. Big ticket
&gt; &gt; &gt; features and fixes include Active Anti Entropy (AAE), MapReduce stability
&gt; &gt; &gt; and speed improvements, a refacing for Riak Control, LevelDB saw another
&gt; &gt; &gt; round of significant improvements, and much more. All told, we
&gt; &gt; &gt; fixed/resolved/merged more than 170 issues and PRs.
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; In addition to the release notes, we've got a blog post up on the Basho
&gt; &gt; &gt; Blog [1] with more details about 1.3. We're also doing a Riak 1.3 Webcast
&gt; &gt; &gt; on March 7th [2] for anyone who is interested in getting a more in-depth
&gt; &gt; &gt; look at the release.
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; 1.3 took a a little longer to get out the door than was planned, but it's
&gt; &gt; &gt; the most-advanced, battle-tested Riak we've ever released and we're proud
&gt; &gt; &gt; to ship it to you. Thanks for being a supportive and active community.
&gt; &gt; Your
&gt; &gt; &gt; production usage, suggestions, comments, criticisms, code contributions,
&gt; &gt; &gt; and bug fixes made this possible.
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; Lastly, if you want to hear all about the future of Riak and hack
&gt; &gt; alongside
&gt; &gt; &gt; fellow Riak Community members for a few days, come to RICON | EAST this
&gt; &gt; May
&gt; &gt; &gt; in NYC [3].
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; Let us know if you have any questions about the release and thanks for
&gt; &gt; &gt; being a part of Riak.
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; Now, onto 1.4...
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; The Basho Team
&gt; &gt; &gt; twitter.com/basho
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; [1] http://basho.com/introducing-riak-1-3/
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; [2] http://info.basho.com/IntroToRiakMarch7.html
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; [3] http://ricon.io/east.html
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; --
&gt; &gt; Simon Effenberg | Site Ops Engineer | mobile.international GmbH
&gt; &gt; Fon: + 49-(0)30-8109 - 7173
&gt; &gt; Fax: + 49-(0)30-8109 - 7131
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Mail: seffenb...@team.mobile.de
&gt; &gt; Web: www.mobile.de
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Marktplatz 1 | 14532 Europarc Dreilinden | Germany
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Geschäftsführer: Malte Krüger
&gt; &gt; HRB Nr.: 18517 P, Amtsgericht Potsdam
&gt; &gt; Sitz der Gesellschaft: Kleinmachnow
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;


-- 
Simon Effenberg | Site Ops Engineer | mobile.international GmbH
Fon: + 49-(0)30-8109 - 7173
Fax: + 49-(0)30-8109 - 7131

Mail: seffenb...@team.mobile.de
Web: www.mobile.de

Marktplatz 1 | 14532 Europarc Dreilinden | Germany


Geschäftsführer: Malte Krüger
HRB Nr.: 18517 P, Amtsgericht Potsdam
Sitz der Gesellschaft: Kleinmachnow 

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

