---
title: "Re: Riak Cluster Behavior - Clarification"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2016-05-31T14:09:45-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg17439"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg17409"
author_name: "Vikram Lalit"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2016-05-31T14:09:45-07:00
---


Thanks again DeadZen... I believe it was indeed related to the sloppy
quorum kicking in when one node was brought down. Playing with the node
configs has helped me further test out the desired state... thanks again!

On Tue, May 24, 2016 at 4:27 PM, DeadZen  wrote:

&gt; Not to jump to conclusions, but this sounds like a quorum issue.
&gt; Such as your writes are not going to all three servers, but only to one or
&gt; two.
&gt; Handoffs would occur when nodes went down unexpectedly, it doesn't
&gt; ever attempt to fetch unwritten data, it fetches data from other
&gt; servers which were still up at the point the server went down..
&gt; There are some configuration values you could experiment with, that
&gt; will ok a write only as long as its gone to a durable storage count..
&gt; But keep in mind theres no guarantee vnodes are assigned to unique
&gt; servers..
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Tue, May 24, 2016 at 4:08 PM, Vikram Lalit 
&gt; wrote:
&gt; &gt; It's returning no object at all for the relevant key. That too is random
&gt; -
&gt; &gt; every few calls it returns but then it doesn't.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; On May 24, 2016 4:06 PM, "Sargun Dhillon"  wrote:
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; What do you mean it's not returning? It's returning stale data? Or
&gt; &gt;&gt; it's erroring?
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; On Tue, May 24, 2016 at 7:34 AM, Vikram Lalit 
&gt; &gt;&gt; wrote:
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; Hi - I'd appreciate if someone can opine on the below behavior of Riak
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; that
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; I am observing... is that expected, or something wrong in my set-up /
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; understanding?
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; To summarize, I have a 3-node Riak cluster (separate EC2 AWS
&gt; instances)
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; with
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; a separate chat server connecting to them. When I write data on the
&gt; Riak
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; nodes, the process is successful and I can read all data correctly.
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; However,
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; as part of my testing, if I deliberately bring down one node (and then
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; remove it from the cluster using riak-admin cluster force-remove /
&gt; plan
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; /
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; commit), the client API is not able to fetch all the written data. In
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; fact,
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; there is an alternation of success and failure which happens rather
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; randomly.
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; My initial suspicion was that it would be happening only during the
&gt; time
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; the
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; rebalancing is occurring (i.e. riak-admin ring-status is not fully
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; settled)
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; but I've seen this sporadic behavior post the same too.
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; Does this have to do with the n and r values for the cluster and given
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; that
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; 1 node is down, the cluster does not succeed in returning results
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; reliably?
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; Also, does this mean that during the time a cluster is being
&gt; rebalanced
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; (even incl. addition of new nodes), the results could be arbitrary -
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; that
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; doesn't sound correct to me?
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; Appreciate if someone can throw some light here? Also, the HTTP API
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; calls to
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; retrieve and set the n / r / w values for a specific bucket - couldn't
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; locate the same!
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; Thanks much!
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; Vikram
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

