---
title: "Re: CorrugatedIron & Idle Connection"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-07-11T07:14:21-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11477"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg11476"
author_name: "Jeremiah Peschka"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-07-11T07:14:21-07:00
---


We're in the process of figuring out how to best handle killing off idle
connections inside of CorrugatedIron. If you can head over to
https://github.com/DistributedNonsense/CorrugatedIron/issues and file a new
bug report, that would be fantastic.

We've avoided killing off connections until now because we don't want to
introduce locking into our connection management. Truthfully, we haven't
run into a bug report where the network team was killing off connections.

So, anyway, if you can submit a bug report we'll get on it. It won't make
it out for the 1.4.0 release, but we can put that in a point release.

---
Jeremiah Peschka - Founder, Brent Ozar Unlimited
MCITP: SQL Server 2008, MVP
Cloudera Certified Developer for Apache Hadoop


On Thu, Jul 11, 2013 at 6:59 AM, Amir Halatzi wrote:

&gt; Hi all,
&gt;
&gt; Trying to optimize our application connection pool, we encountered and
&gt; issue with Corrugated Iron and identifying idle/reset connections. Namely,
&gt; if our network infrastructure (firewall/proxy/etc) closes an idle
&gt; connection - we're getting a 'cluster is offline' error code.
&gt;
&gt; I saw that this is a feature in the making (for the past 8 months), but I
&gt; was wondering if any of you found a way around it?
&gt;
&gt; Thank you,
&gt; Amir Halatzi,
&gt; ooVoo
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

