---
title: "Re: Question about claimant node."
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2017-01-18T02:04:26-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg17862"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg17861"
author_name: "Alex Feng"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2017-01-18T02:04:26-08:00
---


Hi Shaun,

Thank you for the clarification.

Have a great day!

Br,
Alex

2017-01-18 10:22 GMT+01:00 Shaun McVey :

&gt; Hi Alex,
&gt;
&gt; The claimant node is used in operations related to adding/removing nodes
&gt; from the cluster, things like that. If the node dies, for example, due to
&gt; hardware failure, then the cluster will still continue to operate
&gt; normally. In this regard, there's nothing special about the claimant
&gt; node. During normal operations, it's just like any other node. It's only
&gt; when attempting to run certain administrative commands that you'd find it
&gt; doesn't work. You just simply mark it as down though and the cluster will
&gt; re-elect a new claimant to take over the role and you can continue.
&gt;
&gt; Kind Regards,
&gt; Shaun
&gt;
&gt; On Wed, Jan 18, 2017 at 9:05 AM, Alex Feng  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hello Basho Users,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I have some questions regarding claimant node, what does it really mean ?
&gt;&gt; How a claimant node differs from the other nodes ?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; If a claimant node is down, then the whole cluster stop working until I
&gt;&gt; mark it down from other working node, right ? How do we avoid this kind of
&gt;&gt; SPOF ?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thank you.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Br,
&gt;&gt; Alex
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

