---
title: "Re: Riak errors after node left the cluster"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-11-06T22:11:39-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15125"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15123"
author_name: "Oleksiy Krivoshey"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-11-06T22:11:39-08:00
---


I have actually described two recent situations here. In the first one,
there were no failed nodes or servers. I did a clear 'leave' from 1 node
and waited till it exited. I upgraded hardware on it and started the server
again (with clean riak setup), then I've done 'join'. I repeated this after
few hours on second server, doing clean 'leave'. Thats when I started
experiencing mailbox\\_overload errors.

In the second situation, which happened 2 days after, a hard drive have
failed on a 1 server so I had to do 'down' and 'force-remove' for this
node. It was ok when the server was marked as down. When I brought new
server back these errors started again. This time it lasted for 5 hours in
total making my Riak cluster and application unavailable. I did all sorts
of monitoring when I was able to do so (trying to keep application live)
and it seems that there was just the AAE exchanging (repairing) keys by
thousands. If I was disabling the AAE by making it passive I was able to
make my application work (with some limitations of read repair). As soon as
I switched AAE back to active - I was getting thousands of mailbox\\_overload
errors. I was trying to configure mailbox tiers throttle with no luck.

I'm running on a quite good hardware as I thought (64GB ram, RAID10, Intel
Xeon hex-core and private gigabit network just for Riak).



On 7 November 2014 06:06, Scott Lystig Fritchie 
wrote:

&gt; Sargun Dhillon  wrote:
&gt;
&gt; sd&gt; Can you run: [...]
&gt;
&gt; Hi, Sargun and Oleksiy. Those commands and a lot more are run as part
&gt; of the suite of info-gathering done by the "riak-debug" utility. I
&gt; recommend using it instead of managing a hodge-podge of separate
&gt; commands.
&gt;
&gt; The output from "riak-admin cluster-info" is also exceptionally helpful,
&gt; especially because it contains even more diagnostic information,
&gt; especially about Erlang process mailbox contents. I recommend running
&gt; it during overload conditions to see what's going on internally.
&gt;
&gt; Also, "riak-admin top -sort msg\\_q" can give a real-time view of Erlang
&gt; mailbox sizes, sorted by mailbox size.
&gt;
&gt; -Scott
&gt;



-- 
Oleksiy Krivoshey
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

