---
title: "Re: On Ubuntu 13.04 / 64"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-06-18T16:43:36-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11307"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg11306"
author_name: "Jared Morrow"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-06-18T16:43:36-07:00
---


Mono,

1.3 had some issues around return codes and 'service' might be getting
upset. Using just 'sudo riak start' and 'sudo riak stop' is the preferred
method. You do not need to create /var/lib/riak, the proper data
directories will be created on the first start.

I'd highly recommend you follow the Fast Track on the documentation site to
get more familiar with how Riak works before diving too far into it.
http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/tutorials/fast-track/

There were several fixes in regards to init scripts and return codes added
to Riak 1.4 which is our next major release.

-Jared


On Wed, Jun 19, 2013 at 1:33 AM, mdr  wrote:

&gt; I do have a few questions regards the install however.
&gt;
&gt; Riak installed (from Precise) with the followng:
&gt; Adding system user `riak' (UID 110) ...
&gt; Adding new user `riak' (UID 110) with group `riak' ...
&gt; Not creating home directory `/var/lib/riak'.
&gt;
&gt; I have a few questions:
&gt; 1. Will data in /var/lib/riak be created when I create first database?
&gt; 2. Or do I have to check the init file to set some params regards
&gt; initiating
&gt; database.
&gt; 3. I find app.config under /etc/riak lists directories.
&gt; 4. sudo service riak stop returns clean - does not say whether stopped
&gt; anything.
&gt; 5. sudo service riak start returns:
&gt; Attempting to restart script through sudo -H -u riak
&gt; !!!!
&gt; !!!! WARNING: ulimit -n is 1024; 4096 is the recommended minimum.
&gt; !!!!
&gt; Node is already running!
&gt;
&gt; So what is the best way to stop the Riak service?
&gt; ...
&gt; Thanks again.
&gt;
&gt; Monosij
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; View this message in context:
&gt; http://riak-users.197444.n3.nabble.com/On-Ubuntu-13-04-64-tp4028094p4028105.html
&gt; Sent from the Riak Users mailing list archive at Nabble.com.
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

