---
title: "Re: LMDB Backend for Riak"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-05-03T13:06:59-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11018"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg11014"
author_name: "Matthew Von-Maszewski"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-05-03T13:06:59-07:00
---


Brian

The comments in the ycombinator.com link are correct about leveldb stalling 
during writes. That is an unacceptable trait for Riak. We have a custom 
branch available to everyone at github.com: "basho/leveldb". The branch 
contains all code changes through 1.9 of Google's code. It also contains our 
tunings to increase leveldb's performance / throughput into terabyte scenarios. 
 The stalls are now mitigated via progressive write throttling if leveldb gets 
too far behind in its background work. The throttling rate is self tuning to 
the environment and work load. We have tested on SATA, SSD, and FusionIO 
semiconductor arrays. All work great.

Matthew


On May 3, 2013, at 2:43 PM, Kresten Krab Thorup  wrote:

&gt; I tried lmdb in an iOS project recently and while it is indeed fast i also 
&gt; did run into several issues. I needed something seriously faster than SQLite 
&gt; and after some experimentation ended up embedding leveldb in stead.
&gt; 
&gt; 1. When storing objects larger than the page size (default is 4k) then those 
&gt; pages are not taken from the free list (since they need to be consecutive) 
&gt; but always adds to the file size. This means you can easily run out of space.
&gt; 
&gt; 2. The fact that it can only have one write transaction open means that you 
&gt; have to be very careful in not causing serious lock congestion.
&gt; 
&gt; So in my experience it only makes sense to use in a read-heavy application 
&gt; with mostly small values.
&gt; 
&gt; Kresten
&gt; 
&gt; Sent from my iPhone
&gt; 
&gt; On 01/05/2013, at 19.06, "Brian Hong" 
&gt; &gt; wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; OpenLDAP Lightning Memory-Mapped Database seems to be getting traction for 
&gt; it's high performance and similar query (iteration) functionality with 
&gt; leveldb:
&gt; http://symas.com/mdb/
&gt; 
&gt; There seems to be an experimental backend for Riak:
&gt; 
&gt; https://github.com/alepharchives/emdb
&gt; 
&gt; Does anybody know of it's usefulness? Is there any benchmarks on it?
&gt; 
&gt; I've heard that leveldb suffers write performance issues:
&gt; https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=5621884
&gt; 
&gt; Any chances of Basho guys supporting lmdb as an leveldb alternative to Riak? 
&gt; It would be awesome! :D
&gt; 
&gt; --
&gt; Brian(Sung-jin) Hong
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com


\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

