---
title: "Re: secondary indexes limit"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-10-21T10:07:58-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12720"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12715"
author_name: "Louis-Philippe Perron"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-10-21T10:07:58-07:00
---


Hi Russel,
sorry for the confusion, when I talk about different indexes, I talk about
different index names, each key only having around 10 indexes. The cluster
is rather small, 2 nodes, with a dataset of about 25GB representing around
300000 key entries with a possible total secondary index count over 100000
names.

thanks!


On Mon, Oct 21, 2013 at 10:41 AM, Russell Brown wrote:

&gt; Hi Louis-Philippe,
&gt; It costs to create secondary indexes. Nothing is free.
&gt;
&gt; But I'm not sure what "1000 different secondary indexes" means. When you
&gt; add secondary indexes we store the name of the index and the value it
&gt; indexes as part of the object metadata and on disk in an index.
&gt;
&gt; I'm sure our ProServe and CSE could give better examples, but one customer
&gt; I've worked with stores ~20 indexes per object, and has ~60million objects.
&gt; If you means 1000s of different indexes per key, yes, that would make
&gt; reading and writing those keys slower, and would add some overhead to
&gt; communications channels. If you mean 1000s of indexes across your dataset,
&gt; not an issue, if you mean 1000s of index entries, not an issue.
&gt;
&gt; Does that answer your question?
&gt;
&gt; Your previous question, "how many index keys?" depends on how big your
&gt; cluster is, how big your disks are and all the things that determine how
&gt; much data you can store, as indexes are just data too.
&gt;
&gt; Would you care to share some more of your use case or intended use so I
&gt; can help you decide if Riak is suitable?
&gt;
&gt; Cheers
&gt;
&gt; Russell
&gt;
&gt; On 21 Oct 2013, at 15:13, Louis-Philippe Perron 
&gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt; &gt; I had heard from a possibly unfounded source that creating over 1000
&gt; different secondary indexes could place a burden on cluster performance.
&gt; Can anyone confirm that?
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; L-P
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; On Fri, Oct 18, 2013 at 5:55 PM, Alexander Sicular 
&gt; wrote:
&gt; &gt; I think that's just a memory limit.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; mo 2i mo problems.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; @siculars
&gt; &gt; http://siculars.posthaven.com
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Sent from my iRotaryPhone
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; On Oct 18, 2013, at 16:44, Louis-Philippe Perron 
&gt; wrote:
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; Hi,
&gt; &gt; &gt; this question has probably been answered already, still I can't get to
&gt; it, so,
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; What is the maximum number of unique secondary indexe keys a riak
&gt; cluster can manage before running into trouble?
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; thanks!
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; L-P
&gt; &gt; &gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; &gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

