---
title: "Re: Am I misunderstand read and write quorum? Or am I losing writes?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-04-12T10:26:38-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10875"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg10862"
author_name: "Rob Speer"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-04-12T10:26:38-07:00
---


Oh hey, I think that was the issue.

What I was getting back was, in fact, an older version of the document. It
hadn't occurred to me that changing a value was a different operation from
just adding a new value that overwrites it. Now that I'm retrieving the
existing object and modifying it, I haven't encountered the problem again.

Thanks!


On Fri, Apr 12, 2013 at 2:30 AM, Erik Søe Sørensen  wrote:

&gt; Is there any chance that the key in question exists in the bucket prior to
&gt; the test? If so, then you should update the value (read+write) instead of
&gt; trying to create it as a whole new object. This has to do with the nature
&gt; of vector clocks.
&gt;
&gt; /Erik [not familiar with the Python client API]
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; -------- Oprindelig meddelelse --------
&gt; Fra: Rob Speer 
&gt; Dato:
&gt; Til: riak-users Users 
&gt; Emne: Am I misunderstand read and write quorum? Or am I losing writes?
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; My understanding is that if you write a document to a cluster of 4 riak
&gt; servers with w='quorum', then read from that same cluster with r='quorum',
&gt; that the read should reflect the result of the right.
&gt;
&gt; My understanding is also that, in the Python client (version 5525f4f3,
&gt; from master), w = r = 'quorum' by default.
&gt;
&gt; And yet, the following check in my code fails occasionally:
&gt;
&gt; riak\\_obj = bucket.new(docid, doc)
&gt; riak\\_obj.store()
&gt; echo\\_doc = bucket.get(docid).data
&gt; for field in doc:
&gt; assert doc[field] == echo\\_doc[field], (doc, echo\\_doc)
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; I thought perhaps my W and R settings were wrong and I was just getting
&gt; "eventual consistency", so I tried a very slow version where I waited five
&gt; seconds before reading the updated document. This seems to fail just as
&gt; often. So it doesn't just seem like I'm reading a write that hasn't
&gt; happened yet; it seems that the occasional write may \\_never happen at all\\_.
&gt;
&gt; Have I misunderstood something? If not, why would this happen, and how can
&gt; I track it down?
&gt; -- Rob
&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

