---
title: "Re: Riak CS : \"405 (Method Not Allowed)\" when creating a bucket"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-03-21T09:14:38-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10540"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg10539"
author_name: "Jared Morrow"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-03-21T09:14:38-07:00
---


Jean-Baptiste,

Bucket creation is one of the operations handled by 'stanchion'. So, make
sure you've install stanchion installed on only one node and that all
riak-cs nodes are pointing at that one stanchion node. If that all looks
fine, the second thing to check is that the admin credentials match between
riak-cs and stanchion.

Hopefully one of those is the problem and it is an easy fix. If not, just
reply back and we can work through it.

-Jared

On Thu, Mar 21, 2013 at 9:58 AM, Jean-Baptiste Barth &lt;
jeanbaptiste.ba...@gmail.com&gt; wrote:

&gt; Hi,
&gt;
&gt; First congratulations for open-sourcing Riak CS !
&gt;
&gt; Thanks to the "fast track" docs I now have a vagrant VM which runs Riak CS
&gt; and I have been able to define admin credentials. Now I'm trying to use the
&gt; whole thing with s3cmd as proposed in
&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riakcs/latest/tutorials/fast-track/Testing-the-Installation/
&gt; ;
&gt; "s3cmd --configure" and "s3cmd ls" work fine, though it doesn't return
&gt; anything since I have no bucket for now. I use s3cmd v1.5.0-alpha1
&gt; installed with the tarball.
&gt;
&gt; When I try to create a bucket I get the following error: "ERROR: S3 error:
&gt; 405 (Method Not Allowed):"
&gt;
&gt; You can see a full trace here, trying to create a "zbucket" :
&gt; https://gist.github.com/jbbarth/5213352
&gt;
&gt; I'm not very familiar with riak/webmachine/s3cmd for now. I imagine Riak
&gt; CS is not happy with the "PUT" HTTP verb, is it expected behaviour ? Maybe
&gt; there is something obvious I missed ? Any idea is welcome.
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt;
&gt; Jean-Baptiste
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

