---
title: "Re: Single node, nval = 1"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-09-11T06:34:50-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14888"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14885"
author_name: "Tom Santero"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-09-11T06:34:50-07:00
---


(bringing this back to the list)

So the largest challenge you face is when you attempt to optimize Riak for
a single-node installation what you end up doing is introducing new issues
down the line in the event that you need to scale out. For example, should
you reduce the n\\_val to 1 and drop the ring\\_size to something like 8 (in
order to keep the # of databases running on that single VM low) you're
going to face a few issues.

1) As John Daily already mentioned, changing the replication factor after
the fact will almost certainly lead to odd and unexpected behavior.

2) Ring resizing is Riak's dirty little secret, and pretty expensive.

Should you do these hacks in an attempt to reduce the cost of maintaining
two separate codebases, the most reasonable approach when you need to scale
would be to perform a data migration from the hacky-1-node-cluster to a
cluster optimized for a multi-node environment and availability. Note, that
its much easier for me to type "do a data migration" than to actually
perform one--so take recommendations with a grain of salt.

Regards,
Tom


On Thu, Sep 11, 2014 at 8:41 AM, Henning Verbeek 
wrote:

&gt; On Thu, Sep 11, 2014 at 1:38 PM, Tom Santero  wrote:
&gt; &gt; Running a singleton instance of Riak throws away all of the advantages
&gt; aims
&gt; &gt; to provide.
&gt;
&gt; I understand that. But are there any penalties? Does Riak as a
&gt; single-node-instance run worse than in a full cluster?
&gt;
&gt; &gt; If you need a single database server, why not use something
&gt; &gt; designed for that end and rock solid, like PostgreSQL?
&gt;
&gt; My problem is "scaling down". We have developed something very similar
&gt; to RiakCS (implementing our special business logic) where we store
&gt; arbitrarily large data in Riak (in chunks, in a multi-node-cluster,
&gt; with eventual consistency, nval=3, etc.), and thanks to HAProxy and
&gt; Riak, we can scale up as much as we want.
&gt;
&gt; But, our application is sometimes installed on customer premises,
&gt; scaled down, on a single VM. They don't \\*need\\* scalability (yet), they
&gt; often don't need (read: want to pay for) higher availability. We don't
&gt; want to have to maintain two versions of our application, one that
&gt; uses Riak, another that uses ... say a local filesystem for the
&gt; chunks. Two versions would mean more code to maintain, test,
&gt; package...
&gt;
&gt; Hence the idea of using Riak in a single-node setup, nval=1 (so not to
&gt; consume tripple diskspace).
&gt;
&gt; Cheers,
&gt; Henning
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

