---
title: "Re: Playing with / understanding Riak configurations"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2016-07-27T15:29:28-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg17569"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg17567"
author_name: "Tom Santero"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2016-07-27T15:29:28-07:00
---


Vikram,

I apologize, I initially just skimmed your question and thought you were
asking something entirely different.

While increasing your N value is safe, decreasing it on a bucket with
pre-existing data, as you have, is not-recommended and the source of your
inconsistent results.

Tom

On Wed, Jul 27, 2016 at 4:18 PM, Vikram Lalit  wrote:

&gt; Thanks Tom... Yes I did read that but I couldn't deduce the outcome if n
&gt; is decreased. John talks about data loss, but am actually observing a
&gt; different result... perhaps am missing something!
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Wed, Jul 27, 2016 at 6:11 PM, Tom Santero  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Vikram,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; John Daily wrote a fantastic blog series that places your question in
&gt;&gt; context and then answers it.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; http://basho.com/posts/technical/understanding-riaks-configurable-behaviors-part-1/
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Tom
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Wed, Jul 27, 2016 at 4:07 PM, Vikram Lalit 
&gt;&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Hi - I have a Riak node with n\\_val=3, r=2, w=2 and have just one
&gt;&gt;&gt; key-object stored there-in. I'm trying to test various configurations to
&gt;&gt;&gt; better understand the system and have the following observations - some
&gt;&gt;&gt; dont seem to align with my understanding so far, so appreciate if someone
&gt;&gt;&gt; can throw some light please... Thanks!
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; 1. n=3, r=2, w=2: Base state, 1 key-value pair.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; 2. Change to n=2, r=2, w=2: When I query from my client, I randomly see
&gt;&gt;&gt; 1 or 2 values being fetched. In fact, the number of keys fetched is 1 or 2,
&gt;&gt;&gt; randomly changing each time the client queries the db. Ideally, I would
&gt;&gt;&gt; have expected that if we reduce the n\\_val, there would be data loss from
&gt;&gt;&gt; one of the vnodes. And that for this scenario, I would still expect only 1
&gt;&gt;&gt; (remaining) key-value pair to be read from the remaining two vnodes that
&gt;&gt;&gt; has the data. Note that I dont intend to make such a change in production
&gt;&gt;&gt; as cognizant of the recommendation to never decrease the value of n, but
&gt;&gt;&gt; have done so only to test out the details.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; 3. Then change to n=2, r=1, w=1: I get the same alternating result as
&gt;&gt;&gt; above, i.e. 1 or 2 values being fetched.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; 4. Then change to n=1, r=1, w=1: I get 3 key-value pairs, all identical,
&gt;&gt;&gt; from the database. Again, are these all siblings?
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

