---
title: "Re: Update to 1.4.8"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-04-08T03:03:46-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14018"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14017"
author_name: "Timo Gatsonides"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-04-08T03:03:46-07:00
---


&gt; "...So I stopped AAE on all nodes (with riak attach), removed the AAE folders 
&gt; on all the nodes. And then restarted them one-by-one, so they all started 
&gt; with a clean AAE state. Then about a day later the cluster was finally in a 
&gt; normal state."
&gt; I don't understand the difference between what you did and what I'm 
&gt; describing in the former emails? I've stopped the aae via riak attach, and 
&gt; then one by one, I've stopped the node, removed the anti-entropy data and 
&gt; started the node. Is there any subtle difference I'm not getting?
&gt; 
&gt; I'm asking this because indeed this hasn't proved to be enough to stop the 
&gt; cluster entire cluster load. Another thing is the anti-entropy dir data size, 
&gt; since the upgrade it has reached very high values comparing to the previous 
&gt; ones…

Unfortunately I don’t have a 100% definitive answer for you, maybe someone from 
Basho can advise. 

In my case I noticed that after running riak\\_kv\\_entropy\\_manager:disable() the 
IO load did not decrease immediately and on some servers it took quite a while 
before iostat showed disk I/O going to normal levels. I only removed the AAE 
folders after IO load was normal.

Now that you have mentioned it I just took a look at my servers and the 
anti-entropy dir is large (&gt;500Mb) on my servers too, although it varies from 
one server to the next.

Best regards,
Timo

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

