---
title: "RE: Delete bucket type"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2016-09-28T10:00:45-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg17675"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg17674"
author_name: "Nguyen, Kyle"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2016-09-28T10:00:45-07:00
---


Thank you for your quick reply, Magnus! We’re considering using bucket type to 
support multi-tenancy in our system. Hence, all objects stored within the 
namespace of the bucket type and bucket type need to be removed once the client 
has decided to opt-out.

Thanks

-Kyle-

From: Magnus Kessler [mailto:mkess...@basho.com]
Sent: Wednesday, September 28, 2016 2:13 AM
To: Nguyen, Kyle
Cc: Riak Users
Subject: Re: Delete bucket type

On 27 September 2016 at 20:50, Nguyen, Kyle 
&gt; wrote:
Hi all,

Is deleting bucket type possible in version 2.1.4? If not, is there any 
workaround or available script/code that we can do this in a production 
environment without too much performance impact?

Thanks

-Kyle-


Hi Kyle,

There is currently no option to delete bucket types once they have been 
created. Are you trying to delete a bucket type and any objects stored within 
the namespace of the bucket type, or just remove a previously configured bucket 
type?

In Riak, bucket types have very little operational overhead. They get stored in 
the cluster meta data and take up a small amount of disk space there. Bucket 
types are not gossiped around the ring on a regular basis, though, and 
therefore have not got the negative impact a large number of custom buckets 
would have. With Riak-2.x we generally recommend storing any configuration in 
bucket types, rather than creating custom buckets, even if there is only one 
bucket using that specific configuration.


Kind Regards,

Magnus




--
Magnus Kessler
Client Services Engineer
Basho Technologies Limited

Registered Office - 8 Lincoln’s Inn Fields London WC2A 3BP Reg 07970431

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
The information contained in this message may be confidential and legally 
protected under applicable law. The message is intended solely for the 
addressee(s). If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby notified 
that any use, forwarding, dissemination, or reproduction of this message is 
strictly prohibited and may be unlawful. If you are not the intended recipient, 
please contact the sender by return e-mail and destroy all copies of the 
original message.
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

