---
title: "Re: Riak-CS-Control"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-07-02T07:04:32-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11373"
author_name: "Hector Castro"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-07-02T07:04:32-07:00
---


On Tue, Jul 2, 2013 at 6:34 AM, Toby Corkindale
 wrote:
&gt; Riak (and Riak CS and Stanchion) all assume some level of competence at
&gt; Erlang. I found Riak was tricky to get running, but had picked up enough
&gt; knowledge of Erlang's strange syntax and foibles from working with RabbitMQ.
&gt;
&gt; Even then, some things weren't obvious, as you'll see from my questions to
&gt; the list a few months ago.
&gt;
&gt; I do wonder if it would be useful for Basho to publish some Chef and Puppet
&gt; manifests that do the work of setting up a small cluster?
&gt;

For reference, below are links to the Chef cookbooks and Puppet
modules for Riak:

https://github.com/basho/riak-chef-cookbook
https://github.com/basho/riak-cs-chef-cookbook
https://github.com/basho/puppet-riak

They don't spin up a cluster on their own. To do something like that,
at least with CS, I'd recommend this Vagrant project:

https://github.com/basho/vagrant-riak-cs-cluster

It also may be worth noting that this project spins up Riak CS Control as well.

&gt;
&gt; However I believe the best thing would be if Riak shipped with good defaults
&gt; that get people up and running quickly.
&gt; So, for example, instead of requiring the node name to be redefined in the
&gt; vm.args, you'd just have it default to using your FQDN to construct a name.
&gt;
&gt; Stop using Erlang's inpenetrable syntax for the config files, and use
&gt; something people are familiar with, including the UNIX-style of loading
&gt; snippets out of /etc/riak.d/\\*.conf or similar. Enable Riak CS to add a
&gt; snippet that gets itself loaded, rather than requiring moderate amounts of
&gt; edits to be performed manually, including adding paths to the Erlang library
&gt; search path.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; But.. that's just my thoughts, and I'm far from an expert. Maybe once the
&gt; core of Riak has been improved even further and bugs squashed, there'll be
&gt; time for the team to look at improving the initial setup experience. In the
&gt; meantime I've found this list to be very helpful in getting a working system
&gt; up and running.
&gt;
&gt; -Toby
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On 02/07/13 17:36, Guy Morton wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi Chris
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; The video didn't include any information that I hadn't figured out. My
&gt;&gt; problem is that I can't get it to work. I get the nice riak-cs admin page in
&gt;&gt; my browser on port 8000 but it shows no users (perhaps reasonable because I
&gt;&gt; only have succeeded in creating a single user so far - the admin user) and
&gt;&gt; the create user function fails (with the error previously mentioned).
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I've sent you my config files, though since then I've tried what feels
&gt;&gt; like a thousand variants all to no avail. If the config is wrong enough
&gt;&gt; riak-cs won't start, and when it does I can't do a thing.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I'm sure Riak cs is a great product, once it's set up! I just don't seem
&gt;&gt; to be able to get over that hurdle.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; Guy Morton
&gt;&gt; Web Development Manager
&gt;&gt; Brüel & Kjær EMS
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; From: Christopher Meiklejohn [cmeiklej...@basho.com]
&gt;&gt; Sent: Monday, 1 July 2013 4:26 PM
&gt;&gt; To: Guy Morton
&gt;&gt; Cc: riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; Subject: Re: Riak-CS-Control
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi Guy,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Here is a good video introduction to configuring Riak CS Control:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; http://basho.com/getting-started-with-riak-cs-control/
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Let me know if you run into any specific issues and I'm happy to help.
&gt;&gt; I'm also lurking in the #riak room on Freenode (nick: cmeiklejohn) if you
&gt;&gt; need further help (any of us should be able to!)
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; - Chris
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; Christopher Meiklejohn
&gt;&gt; Software Engineer
&gt;&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Monday, July 1, 2013 at 2:14 AM, Guy Morton wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Also, I just found this - riak-cs-control... None of the install/config
&gt;&gt;&gt; documents I saw previously mentioned it, or that it should be configured, or
&gt;&gt;&gt; how. It seems to control the web interface referred to in my last email...
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Where is the most up-to-date info about Riak CS and how to set it up? I
&gt;&gt;&gt; am trying to set it up on Debian squeeze and I'm still floundering. I seem
&gt;&gt;&gt; very close to having it working, but not quite. It's a bit frustrating! Is
&gt;&gt;&gt; it just me, or is it complex to get working?
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt;&gt; Guy Morton
&gt;&gt;&gt; Web Development Manager
&gt;&gt;&gt; Brüel & Kjær EMS
&gt;&gt;&gt; This e-mail is confidential and may be read, copied and used only by the
&gt;&gt;&gt; intended recipient. If you have received it in error, please contact the
&gt;&gt;&gt; sender immediately by return e-mail. Please then delete the e-mail and do
&gt;&gt;&gt; not disclose its contents to any other person.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; This e-mail is confidential and may be read, copied and used only by the
&gt;&gt; intended recipient. If you have received it in error, please contact the
&gt;&gt; sender immediately by return e-mail. Please then delete the e-mail and do
&gt;&gt; not disclose its contents to any other person.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

