---
title: "Re: Node is not running!"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2017-02-23T05:21:13-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg18014"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg18007"
author_name: "Jurgen Ramaliu"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2017-02-23T05:21:13-08:00
---


Hi Paul and Magnus,
I have resolve it by using command :


 - riak stop


 - changing nodename into file riak.conf from nodename = riak@127.0.0.1
 to riak@192.168.1.10


 - riak-admin reip riak@127.0.0.1 riak@192.168.1.10

But I have another problem, riak starts with this IP but shut down after
about 15 seconds.


Can you tell me how can I resolve this?

Regards,
Jurgen


On Wed, Feb 22, 2017 at 4:43 PM, Magnus Kessler  wrote:

&gt; On 22 February 2017 at 10:34, Jurgen Ramaliu 
&gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hello RIAK,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I have one problem with riak node configuration. I have install RIAK KV
&gt;&gt; and everything is ok.
&gt;&gt; I run \\*riak start\\* on my CentOS 6.5 and it starts ok.
&gt;&gt; I have configure file \\*/etc/hosts\\* :
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\*127.0.0.1 localhost localhost.localdomain localhost4
&gt;&gt; localhost4.localdomain4\\*
&gt;&gt; \\*::1 localhost localhost.localdomain localhost6
&gt;&gt; localhost6.localdomain6\\*
&gt;&gt; \\*192.168.1.10 riak1.mydomain.com 
&gt;&gt; riak1\\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; and this file \\*/etc/sysconfig/network\\* :
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\*NETWORKING=yes\\*
&gt;&gt; \\*HOSTNAME=riak1.mydomain.com \\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; But, when i try to do this steps, on this link :
&gt;&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riak/kv/2.2.0/using/running-a-cluste
&gt;&gt; r/#configure-the-first-node
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; to configure first node, when I change nodename form :
&gt;&gt; \\*nodename = riak@127.0.0.1 \\* to \\*nodename
&gt;&gt; = riak@192.168.1.10 \\* , riak doesn't start, I take
&gt;&gt; back this error messages :
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; [root@riak1 ~]# riak start
&gt;&gt; Node 'riak@192.168.1.10' not responding to pings.
&gt;&gt; Node 'riak@192.168.1.10' not responding to pings.
&gt;&gt; Node is not running!
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; or \\*nodename = r...@riak1.mydomain.com \\*, riak
&gt;&gt; doesn't start, I take back this error messages :
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; [root@riak1 ~]# riak start
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Node 'r...@riak1.mydomain.com' not responding to pings.
&gt;&gt; Node 'r...@riak1.mydomain.com' not responding to pings.
&gt;&gt; Node is not running!
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Can you please tell me how can I resolve this problem?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thank you in advance,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Jurgen
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt; Hi Jurgen,
&gt;
&gt; When a node is started for the first time, its name is recorded in the
&gt; ring file (a file under /var/lib/riak/ring by default on CentOS). For a
&gt; single node that hasn't joined a cluster, yet, the easiest way to start the
&gt; node with a new node name is to simply remove the ring directory and then
&gt; start the node. Please note that any changes to bucket properties for
&gt; buckets under the default bucket type get lost in this process. If any such
&gt; changes have been made, re-apply them once the node has been restarted.
&gt;
&gt; Kind Regards,
&gt;
&gt; Magnus
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Magnus Kessler
&gt; Client Services Engineer
&gt; Basho Technologies Limited
&gt;
&gt; Registered Office - 8 Lincoln’s Inn Fields London WC2A 3BP Reg 07970431
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

