---
title: "Re: Question about RiakCluster - Java client - 2.x"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2016-12-01T08:00:03-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg17793"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg17774"
author_name: "Alex Moore"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2016-12-01T08:00:03-08:00
---


Hi Konstantin,

The RiakClient class is reentrant and thread-safe, so you should be able to
share it among the different workers. You may have to adjust the min / max
connection settings to get the most performance, but that's relatively
easy.

One other thing to notice is RiakClient's cleanup() method
,
since you are working in a servlet / container environment.

Thanks,
Alex

On Mon, Nov 21, 2016 at 3:49 PM, Konstantin Kalin &lt;
konstantin.ka...@gmail.com&gt; wrote:

&gt; I'm currently migrating Java client from 1.4 to 2.1 and I have a question
&gt; about RiakCluster class.
&gt;
&gt; We hide Riak Java API by our interface since we use multiple backends and
&gt; Riak is one of them.
&gt; Let's say I have two independent business activities that makes calls to
&gt; Riak cluster. Both activities are executed within same Tomcat instance.
&gt; Currently we use two RiakClient instances (1.4). Each activity initializes
&gt; its own RiakClient.
&gt; Since I do the migration I cannot decide. Would it have more sense to
&gt; create a "singleton" object that will own RiakCluster instead of creating
&gt; two instances? What should I consider as recommended approach?
&gt;
&gt; Thank you,
&gt; Konstantin.
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

