---
title: "Re: Connection timeout issues"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-07-15T10:42:00-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11533"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg11525"
author_name: "Y N"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-07-15T10:42:00-07:00
---




It's unlikely to be that problem since I don't have any test data in my system 
yet. My "batch functions" are just running in the background doing what they 
normally do (i.e. running a mapreduce as well as querying all keys from a 
specific bucket). However, since there is no actual data yet, I'm surprised I'm 
running into a timeout issue.


\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
 From: Jeremiah Peschka 
To: Y N  
Cc: "riak-users@lists.basho.com"  
Sent: Monday, July 15, 2013 6:33 AM
Subject: Re: Connection timeout issues
 


Riak 1.4 introduced a time out setting that defaults to 60,000 seconds. If you 
need to read for longer periods of time, you'll need to increase the timeout. 
You can set it on the messages that are being sent in to Riak. 

Is this, perhaps, what you're running into?


---
Jeremiah Peschka - Founder, Brent Ozar Unlimited
MCITP: SQL Server 2008, MVP
Cloudera Certified Developer for Apache Hadoop


On Sun, Jul 14, 2013 at 10:16 PM, Y N  wrote:


&gt;
&gt;I don't know if this is a client (Java 1.1.1 client) or server issue....
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;I recently upgraded to 1.4 and I am now seeing timeout issues when my app is 
&gt;trying to read data either via mapreduce or getting all keys for a bucket. 
&gt;Currently my server has no data (this is my test server and I wiped everything 
&gt;for the upgrade).
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;The client is using the PB interface.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;Is this a known issue?
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;I did not have this problem on 1.3 and when running the 1.1.0 client.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;Thanks.
&gt;\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;riak-users mailing list
&gt;riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

