---
title: "Re: Random timeouts on Riak"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-12-29T03:55:50-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15414"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15413"
author_name: "Sargun Dhillon"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-12-29T03:55:50-08:00
---


Several things:
1) I recommend you have a 5-node cluster:
http://basho.com/why-your-riak-cluster-should-have-at-least-five-nodes/
2) What version of Riak are you using?
3) What backend(s) are you using?
4) What's the size of your keyspace?
5) Are you actively rewriting keys, or writing keys to the cluster?
6) Do you know how much I/O the cluster is currently doing?

On Mon, Dec 29, 2014 at 2:51 AM, Jason Ryan  wrote:
&gt; Hi,
&gt;
&gt; We are getting random timeouts from our application (&gt;60seconds) when we try
&gt; to retrieve a key from our Riak cluster (4 nodes with a load balancer in
&gt; front of them). Our application just uses the standard REST API to query
&gt; Riak.
&gt;
&gt; We are pretty new to Riak - so would like to understand how best to debug
&gt; this issue? Is there any good pointers on what to start with? This is our
&gt; production cluster.
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; Jason
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; This message is for the named person's use only. If you received this
&gt; message in error, please immediately delete it and all copies and notify the
&gt; sender. You must not, directly or indirectly, use, disclose, distribute,
&gt; print, or copy any part of this message if you are not the intended
&gt; recipient. Any views expressed in this message are those of the individual
&gt; sender and not Trustev Ltd. Trustev is registered in Ireland No. 516425 and
&gt; trades from 2100 Cork Airport Business Park, Cork, Ireland.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

