---
title: "Re: why leaving riak cluster so slowly and how to accelerate the speed"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-08-06T15:42:12-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16378"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16411"
author_name: "Dmitri Zagidulin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-08-06T15:42:12-07:00
---


Ok, I think I understand so far. So what's the question?

On Thursday, August 6, 2015, Changmao.Wang 
wrote:

&gt; Hi Riak users,
&gt;
&gt; Before adding new nodes, the cluster only have five nodes. The member list
&gt; are as below:
&gt; 10.21.136.66,10.21.136.71,10.21.136.76,10.21.136.81,10.21.136.86.
&gt; We did not setup http proxy for the cluster, only one node of the cluster
&gt; provide the http service. so the CPU load is always high on this node.
&gt;
&gt; After that, I added four nodes (10.21.136.[91-94]) to those cluster.
&gt; During the ring/data balance progress, each node failed(riak stopped)
&gt; because of disk 100% full.
&gt; I used multi-disk path to "data\\_root" parameter in '/etc/riak/app.config'.
&gt; Each disk is only 580MB size.
&gt; As you know, bitcask storage engine did not support multi-disk path. After
&gt; one of the disks is 100% full, it can not switch next idle disk. So the
&gt; "riak" service is down.
&gt;
&gt; After that, I removed the new add four nodes at active nodes with
&gt; "riak-admin cluster leave riak@'10.21.136.91'
&gt; ".
&gt; and then stop "riak" service on other active new nodes, reformat the above
&gt; new nodes with LVM disk management (bind 6 disk with virtual disk group).
&gt; Replace the "data-root" parameter with one folder, and then start "riak"
&gt; service again. After that, the cluster began the data balance again.
&gt; That's the whole story.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Amao
&gt;
&gt; ------------------------------
&gt; \\*From: \\*"Dmitri Zagidulin"  &gt;
&gt; \\*To: \\*"Changmao.Wang"  &gt;
&gt; \\*Sent: \\*Thursday, August 6, 2015 10:46:59 PM
&gt; \\*Subject: \\*Re: why leaving riak cluster so slowly and how to accelerate
&gt; the speed
&gt;
&gt; Hi Amao,
&gt;
&gt; Can you explain a bit more which steps you've taken, and what the problem
&gt; is?
&gt;
&gt; Which nodes have been added, and which nodes are leaving the cluster?
&gt;
&gt; On Tue, Jul 28, 2015 at 11:03 PM, Changmao.Wang  &gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi Raik user group,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I'm using riak and riak-cs 1.4.2. Last weekend, I added four nodes to
&gt;&gt; cluster with 5 nodes. However, it's failed with one of disks 100% full.
&gt;&gt; As you know bitcask storage engine can not support multifolders.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; After that, I restarted the "riak" and leave the cluster with the command
&gt;&gt; "riak-admin cluster leave" and "riak-admin cluster plan", and the commit.
&gt;&gt; However, riak is always doing KV balance after my submit leaving command.
&gt;&gt; I guess that it's doing join cluster progress.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Could you show us how to accelerate the leaving progress? I have tuned
&gt;&gt; the "transfer-limit" parameters on 9 nodes.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; below is some commands output:
&gt;&gt; riak-admin member-status
&gt;&gt; ================================= Membership
&gt;&gt; ==================================
&gt;&gt; Status Ring Pending Node
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
&gt;&gt; leaving 6.3% 10.9% 'riak@10.21.136.91
&gt;&gt; '
&gt;&gt; leaving 9.4% 10.9% 'riak@10.21.136.92
&gt;&gt; '
&gt;&gt; leaving 6.3% 10.9% 'riak@10.21.136.93
&gt;&gt; '
&gt;&gt; leaving 6.3% 10.9% 'riak@10.21.136.94
&gt;&gt; '
&gt;&gt; valid 10.9% 10.9% 'riak@10.21.136.66
&gt;&gt; '
&gt;&gt; valid 12.5% 10.9% 'riak@10.21.136.71
&gt;&gt; '
&gt;&gt; valid 18.8% 10.9% 'riak@10.21.136.76
&gt;&gt; '
&gt;&gt; valid 18.8% 12.5% 'riak@10.21.136.81
&gt;&gt; '
&gt;&gt; valid 10.9% 10.9% 'riak@10.21.136.86
&gt;&gt; '
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; riak-admin transfer\\_limit
&gt;&gt; =============================== Transfer Limit
&gt;&gt; ================================
&gt;&gt; Limit Node
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
&gt;&gt; 200 'riak@10.21.136.66
&gt;&gt; '
&gt;&gt; 200 'riak@10.21.136.71
&gt;&gt; '
&gt;&gt; 100 'riak@10.21.136.76
&gt;&gt; '
&gt;&gt; 100 'riak@10.21.136.81
&gt;&gt; '
&gt;&gt; 200 'riak@10.21.136.86
&gt;&gt; '
&gt;&gt; 500 'riak@10.21.136.91
&gt;&gt; '
&gt;&gt; 500 'riak@10.21.136.92
&gt;&gt; '
&gt;&gt; 500 'riak@10.21.136.93
&gt;&gt; '
&gt;&gt; 500 'riak@10.21.136.94
&gt;&gt; '
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Any more details for your diagnosing the problem?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Amao
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

