---
title: "Re: riak 2.0 pre11.1 doesn't start"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-03-17T17:48:07-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13825"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13822"
author_name: "Buri Arslon"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-03-17T17:48:07-07:00
---


Thanks guys! I was able to start the last build (riak-2.0.0pre15)


On Mon, Mar 17, 2014 at 4:56 PM, Seth Thomas  wrote:

&gt; I'd try using an updated build and let us know if it's still an issue. My
&gt; hunch is that it'll still be the same issue if in fact there is some Erlang
&gt; VM local or remote holding onto that name/IP. If you want to ping me
&gt; directly with the configuration directory (etc) contents, logs, and OS
&gt; version specifics I'll see if I can reproduce.
&gt;
&gt; On March 17, 2014 at 15:36:25, Buri Arslon (buri...@gmail.com) wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Thanks, Seth.
&gt;
&gt; No, I don't think there is something in my system that is using the same
&gt; port. I rebooted and checked ips and all riak default ports were free. I
&gt; started the old riak just to test. I stopped id and cleaned beam.smp, epmd,
&gt; etc.
&gt;
&gt; I didn't change anything in the configs. After installing riak with "make
&gt; rel", I ran './rel/riak/bin/riak start' command.
&gt;
&gt; I had downloaded the source from basho.com. Maybe I need to use github
&gt; one?
&gt;
&gt; thanks,
&gt; Buriwoy
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Mon, Mar 17, 2014 at 4:16 PM, Seth Thomas  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Is there something else on the network trying to operate with the same
&gt;&gt; name/IP? If you'd like I'm happy to look at the vm.args and app.config but
&gt;&gt; I'm of the mind that there is something else in the environment that
&gt;&gt; causing this error. That is to say I don't agree with the assertion this is
&gt;&gt; 2.0 specific. In the GitHub issue it was mentioned that there is an older
&gt;&gt; version in play - is this other ring running while you're firing up 2.0?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Perhaps getting more information about the environment might help to
&gt;&gt; figure out why you're encountering this error.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On March 17, 2014 at 14:50:10, Buri Arslon (buri...@gmail.com) wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks, Michael.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I checked ports and made sure they were free. I even rebooted my server
&gt;&gt; to start from clean. Didn't help.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Mon, Mar 17, 2014 at 3:07 PM, Michael Dillon &lt;
&gt;&gt; mdillon...@pagefreezer.com&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Best way to do a quick check to see if Riak started OK is to run
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; netstat -lnp
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; and see if something is listening on the Riak ports like 8089 or
&gt;&gt;&gt; whatever you have changed it too. If something is listening, then the PID
&gt;&gt;&gt; that is doing it is listed. Kill that PID and you have killed Riak and can
&gt;&gt;&gt; start it normally.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Of course it is better to use the normal way for starting and stopping
&gt;&gt;&gt; Riak, and never use the -9 option on kill.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Also, you really should be looking at log files to figure out problems.
&gt;&gt;&gt; There are several in /var/log/riak
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Actually, now that I think about it, you probably cannot run riak
&gt;&gt;&gt; console if riak is already running. Either start riak using "riak console"
&gt;&gt;&gt; INSTEAD OF riak start, or use riak attach to connect to an already running
&gt;&gt;&gt; one. But the messages that have already been displayed will not reappear.
&gt;&gt;&gt; Look in the logs.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; On Mon, Mar 17, 2014 at 1:58 PM, Buri Arslon  wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Hi guys!
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; ./riak start is giving me "wait\\_for\\_erlang" error. I had added a
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; detailed info here: https://github.com/basho/riak/issues/512
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; any hints?
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; thanks,
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Buriwoy
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt;&gt; PageFreezer.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; #200 - 311 Water Street
&gt;&gt;&gt; Vancouver, BC V6B 1B8
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

