---
title: "Re: Riak DT refresh"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2016-05-06T17:19:26-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg17305"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg17264"
author_name: "Sargun Dhillon"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2016-05-06T17:19:26-07:00
---


We're using riak\\_dt in anger in our product. We are already using it
with rebar3, and Erlang 18.3 through some super messy patches.

I would love to see a register that takes the logical clock, and
timestamp for resolution, rather than just a straightup timestamp. My
biggest ask though is delta-CRDTs. Delta-CRDTs with a decent
anti-entropy algorithm would allow our system to scale from 1000s of
keys to 100ks of keys.

Nonetheless, Riak\\_dt is an awesome library, and we're probably
planning on contributing back to it soonish, especially if any of the
other comments on this thread are things we need, and Basho doesn't.

On Thu, Apr 28, 2016 at 12:55 AM, Russell Brown  wrote:
&gt; Hi,
&gt; Riak DT[1] is in need of some love. I know that some of you on this list 
&gt; (Sargun, are you here? Heinz?) have expressed opinions on the work that needs 
&gt; doing. Here is my short list, I would love to hear opinions on priority, and 
&gt; any additions to this list:
&gt;
&gt; 1. merger smaller map branch
&gt; 2. deltas
&gt; 3. new data types (we have a range register and some and Multi-Value-Register 
&gt; to add, any more?)
&gt; 4. Internal state as records or maps (but not these messy tuples)
&gt; 5. update to rebar3
&gt; 6. update to latest erlang
&gt;
&gt; I’m pretty sure there is plenty more. Would greatly appreciate your feedback.
&gt;
&gt; Many thanks
&gt;
&gt; Russell
&gt;
&gt; [1] https://github.com/basho/riak\\_dt/
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

