---
title: "Re: A problem running Riak in a Docker image under Vagrant on Windows	7,8 and 10"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-08-31T11:08:48-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16478"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16469"
author_name: "Matthew Brender"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-08-31T11:08:48-07:00
---


Hey Pete,

That's an interesting situation that leads me to think its a Windows
Vagrant consideration, given that everything runs on OS X. Is your
Dockerfile in a place we could see it and/or run it?

FWIW, Hector has a project that works well. Maybe you can reference
his setup [0]. I'd also welcome a cross-post to StackOverflow in case
its a common Windows + Vagrant issue that our community may miss [1].

[0] http://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/riak
[1] https://github.com/hectcastro/vagrant-multi-docker-riak

Matt Brender | Developer Advocacy Lead
Basho Technologies
t: @mjbrender


On Fri, Aug 28, 2015 at 3:49 AM, Pete Slater  wrote:
&gt;
&gt; I am having a problem with a Docker image running Riak which is causing me 
&gt; concern.
&gt;
&gt; I have a Docker image which is being run inside of a Vagrant container. The 
&gt; Docker image is running Riak in a CentOS 7 guest OS and is configured to 
&gt; start via a supervisor script.
&gt;
&gt; The issue I am having is that when running the Vagrant VM in a MacOS host OS, 
&gt; Riak in the Docker image starts fine.
&gt;
&gt; However when I run the same Vagrantfile in a Windows host OS, Riak fails to 
&gt; start with an error ‘Protocol: ~tp: the name 
&gt; riak@127.0.0.1 seems to be in use by another erlang 
&gt; node’
&gt;
&gt; I have tried changing the codename but the error persists.
&gt;
&gt; The strange thing is that Riak seems to be running as we can query it via the 
&gt; REST API. But when trying to communicate to it when logged into the Docker 
&gt; container and doing something like ‘riak ping’ we get Node 
&gt; ‘riak@127.0.0.1’ not responding to pings.
&gt;
&gt; Any help would be appreciated. If you need further information then please 
&gt; ask.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

