---
title: "Re: merge_contents error"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2017-06-26T02:07:59-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg18288"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg18287"
author_name: "Russell Brown"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2017-06-26T02:07:59-07:00
---


Ah wait, no, I see it, you seem to have set the DVV enabled bucket property to 
the binary &lt;&lt;“false”&gt;&gt;, it should be a boolean atom, either ‘true' or ‘false’.

Something weird has gone on in your bucket props validation, though, as that 
should have been caught or coerced to binary long before this point. How did 
you set that bucket property on this bucket?

Cheers

Russell

On 26 Jun 2017, at 10:03, Russell Brown  wrote:

&gt; Hi Mark,
&gt; It’s an error that means there is no function clause in 
&gt; riak\\_object:merge\\_contents that matches the given arguments. It is hard to 
&gt; tell from the snippet of log you posted what the issue is here since the 
&gt; arguments are truncated. Is this related to you cluster restore from a 
&gt; backup? It looks like it is related to your periodic read timeouts. 
&gt; 
&gt; What version of Riak are you running, and what are the bucket properties for 
&gt; this object? Is there more information in the error log, any messages about 
&gt; hd([]) for example?
&gt; 
&gt; Can you grab the actual object in questions from each of the primary vnodes 
&gt; and in some console manually run the merge function and see what the results 
&gt; are? If you need help with how to do this let me know.
&gt; 
&gt; Cheers
&gt; 
&gt; Russell
&gt; 
&gt; On 26 Jun 2017, at 09:34, Mark Richard Thomas  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Hello
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; I'm seeing the following error message for a number of objects:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; console.log:2017-06-26 02:06:00.351 [error] &lt;0.12343.73&gt; gen\\_fsm 
&gt;&gt; &lt;0.12343.73&gt; in state waiting\\_vnode\\_r terminated with reason: no function 
&gt;&gt; clause matching 
&gt;&gt; riak\\_object:merge\\_contents({r\\_object,{&lt;&lt;"commercial"&gt;&gt;,&lt;&lt;"precalculatedchar"&gt;&gt;},&lt;&lt;"00002065"&gt;&gt;,[{r\\_content,{dict,7,16,16,8,...},...}],...},
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; {r\\_object,{&lt;&lt;"commercial"&gt;&gt;,&lt;&lt;"precalculatedchar"&gt;&gt;},&lt;&lt;"00002065"&gt;&gt;,[{r\\_content,{dict,7,16,16,8,...},...}],...},
&gt;&gt; &lt;&lt;"false"&gt;&gt;) line 306
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; What does "no function clause matching riak\\_object:merge\\_contents" mean?
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Thanks
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Mark
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Mark Thomas 
&gt;&gt; Technical Lead, UK IT
&gt;&gt; Equifax Inc.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; O +44 (0)7908 798 270
&gt;&gt; mark.tho...@equifax.com 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;   
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Equifax Limited is registered in England with Registered No. 2425920. 
&gt;&gt; Registered Office: Capital House, 25 Chapel Street, London NW1 5DS. Equifax 
&gt;&gt; Limited is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
&gt;&gt; Equifax Touchstone Limited is registered in Scotland with Registered No. 
&gt;&gt; SC113401. Registered Office: Exchange Tower,19 Canning Street, Edinburgh, 
&gt;&gt; EH3 8EH.
&gt;&gt; Equifax Commercial Services Limited is registered in the Republic of Ireland 
&gt;&gt; with Registered No. 215393. Registered Office: IDA Business & Technology 
&gt;&gt; Park, Rosslare Road, Drinagh, Wexford.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; This message contains information from Equifax which may be confidential and 
&gt;&gt; privileged. If you are not an intended recipient, please refrain from any 
&gt;&gt; disclosure, copying, distribution or use of this information and note that 
&gt;&gt; such actions are prohibited. If you have received this transmission in 
&gt;&gt; error, please notify by e-mail postmas...@equifax.com.
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com


\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

