---
title: "Re: Riak TS Performance for analytical queries"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2017-06-29T03:05:46-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg18304"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg18302"
author_name: "Grigory Fateyev"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2017-06-29T03:05:46-07:00
---


Hello!

I'm not sure but seems this can help:

&gt; In interactive mode, which is default, only some code is loaded during
system startup, basically the modules needed by the runtime system. Other
code is dynamically loaded when first referenced. When a call to a function
in a certain module is made, and the module is not loaded, the code server
searches for and tries to load the module.[1]

[1]: http://erlang.org/doc/man/code.html

2017-06-19 11:13 GMT+03:00 Daniel Eberhardt 
:

&gt; Hi,
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; I’m a software engineer from Germany and testing the performance of a
&gt; single-node Riak TS 1.40 via the Java Client at the moment.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Therefore I query statements like ‘\\*select sum(value) from tsdata where time 
&gt; &gt; '" \\*+ day + \\*"' and time &lt; '" \\*+ tomorrow + \\*"';"\\*’
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Now I’ve recognised the following issue: The first query I sent to Riak
&gt; TS is always incredible slow, but the queries I start afterwards, are more
&gt; than 20x faster. And while executing these queries, it doesn’t matter if
&gt; I query the same data or other data in another table/bucket.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Do you have any reasons for this behaviour? I would be interested to know
&gt; why the first query is so slow and whether this behaviour is usual.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Thank you in advance.
&gt;
&gt; Daniel
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Daniel Eberhardt
&gt;
&gt; Dualer Student - Wirtschaftsinformatik
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; eXXcellent solutions
&gt;
&gt; Beim Alten Fritz 2
&gt; 89075 Ulm
&gt; +49 731 550 26 770
&gt;
&gt; daniel.eberha...@exxcellent.de
&gt;
&gt; www.exxcellent.de
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; eXXcellent solutions gmbh
&gt; Geschäftsführer: Dr. Martina Burgetsmeier,
&gt; Gerhard Gruber, Wilhelm Zorn
&gt; Sitz und Registergericht: Ulm, HRB-Nr. 4309
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

