---
title: "Re: Riak CS need for 5 servers?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-04-03T11:40:45-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15970"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15967"
author_name: "Shankar Dhanasekaran"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-04-03T11:40:45-07:00
---


Thanks for the links and additional explanation Chris. I will go through
them.

One more question. My hosting provider sets a hard limit on the harddisk
size at the time of order. I go with, say, 20TB harddisk per server and
order 5 of them, I can get Riak running but I will still be limited to
20TB. If I need to increase my harddisk space, I would have to upgrade my
hardware that allows more disk bays. (limitation of my provider).

So if I needed to increase the capacity to, say, 60TB, will it work if I
add 5 more 60TB servers to the existing pool and decommission the old ones
after the data are replicated? How long does it take and how do I know the
replication is complete in the newly joined nodes?



On Fri, Apr 3, 2015 at 11:59 PM, Christopher Meiklejohn &lt;
cmeiklej...@basho.com&gt; wrote:

&gt;
&gt; &gt; On Apr 3, 2015, at 11:24 AM, Shankar Dhanasekaran 
&gt; wrote:
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Thanks Chris for your answer. I still don't comprehend what is meant by
&gt; &gt; this is the minimum amount of nodes needed to ensure all copies of each
&gt; object are stored on different physical nodes. [2]
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Why can't a 3 node cluster store the data in each of them? I am reading
&gt; the little riak book as well but still I don't understand what is the magic
&gt; value of 5?
&gt;
&gt; Five is the minimum number of nodes required to guarantee each copy of
&gt; each object is not stored on the same physical machine. With three this
&gt; can not be guaranteed, so you might have two copies (out of three) for a
&gt; given object on the same machine.
&gt;
&gt; It’s an optimization problem computed during node membership referred to
&gt; as “claim.”
&gt;
&gt; [1]
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/pipermail/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com/2011-February/003319.html
&gt; [2]
&gt; http://basho.com/why-your-riak-cluster-should-have-at-least-five-nodes/
&gt;
&gt; Christopher Meiklejohn
&gt; Senior Software Engineer
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; cmeiklej...@basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

