---
title: "Re: Using cursorMark with '_yz_rk'"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2016-09-21T07:41:49-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg17660"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg17659"
author_name: "Guillaume Boddaert"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2016-09-21T07:41:49-07:00
---


I'm very curious of your cursorMark implementation, I'm in deep need of 
that feature.


From my experience I wasn't even able to trigger a query with my riak 
version as it was not yet supported by the Solr bundled with it. But I 
might missed a point with that.


I'm using 2.1.2.

Guillaume

On 21/09/2016 03:28, Vipin Sharma wrote:


Hi all,

In our system we have default implementation of querying the data from 
riak using “pagination”.


For some of the queries, with huge number of resulting records (into 
the tunes of 10,000+) , it is becoming an issue and hence we wanted to 
change it to use “cursorMark” as suggested here : 
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/solr/Pagination+of+Results


While using cursorMark,

-It asks for unique key in the sort field. We didn’t have a unique key 
of our own so wanted to use “\\_yz\\_rk” but It gives error mentioned below.


-Query is accepted when sort parameter is changed to use “\\_yz\\_id” 
instead but It gives redundant / duplicate records. It is probably a 
known issue as mentioned here 
 ( 
Pagination Warning). Solution recommended is to use { \\_yz\\_rt 
asc, \\_yz\\_rb asc, \\_yz\\_rk asc } instead but for each of them query is 
returning the following error :


"error":{"msg":"Cursor functionality requires a sort containing a 
uniqueKey field tie breaker","code":400}


Can somebody please share some suggestions on this.

Thanks

Vipin



\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com


\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

