---
title: "Re: [ANN] Ruby Client v1.1.1 Release"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-04-03T14:15:10-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10668"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg10667"
author_name: "Sean Cribbs"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-04-03T14:15:10-07:00
---


Sure, I'll get a patch release out this week. I had forgotten about
that particular bug. Sorry for the inconvenience!

On Wed, Apr 3, 2013 at 4:07 PM, Sean McKibben  wrote:
&gt; IIRC it was fixed in 1.1.0 but came back in 1.1.1.
&gt;
&gt; I did a simple test just now and sanitized it for this gist:
&gt; https://gist.github.com/graphex/5305274
&gt;
&gt; I also have to store items with ? in their keys, which has issues over http 
&gt; (noted in https://github.com/basho/riak-ruby-client/issues/80 )
&gt;
&gt; So I have to have two different clients at all times, one PBC so i can write 
&gt; ? in keys, and one HTTP so I can get 2i queries back…
&gt;
&gt; Sean
&gt;
&gt; On Apr 3, 2013, at 2:51 PM, Sean Cribbs  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Can you clarify the problem you're having? That feature was merged in
&gt;&gt; July, long before the 1.1.0 release:
&gt;&gt; https://github.com/basho/riak-ruby-client/commit/4fe52756d7df6ee494bfbc40552ec017f3ff4da4
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Wed, Apr 3, 2013 at 3:35 PM, Sean McKibben  wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt; I'm wondering if we could get a 1.1.2 version bump pretty soon. Not being 
&gt;&gt;&gt; able to do 2i over PBC with 1.1.1 is rather painful and I kind of need a 
&gt;&gt;&gt; released version to send it to production.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt;&gt; Sean McKibben
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; On Jan 10, 2013, at 2:05 PM, Sean Cribbs  wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Hey riak-users,
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Today we released the Ruby Riak Client (riak-client gem), version
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 1.1.1. The only change from version 1.1.0 was a fix for older
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; patchlevels of Ruby 1.8.7 (before p315) that had a bug in Net::HTTP.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; We encountered this bug when testing the upcoming Riak 1.3 release on
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Ubuntu 10.04LTS, which has a maximum Ruby version of 1.8.7p249. If you
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; are on one of those old versions, it is definitely recommended to
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; upgrade to a later patchlevel or Ubuntu release and avoid this bug
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; altogether.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Cheers,
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Software Engineer
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; http://basho.com/
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt;&gt; Software Engineer
&gt;&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt;&gt; http://basho.com/
&gt;



-- 
Sean Cribbs 
Software Engineer
Basho Technologies, Inc.
http://basho.com/

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

