---
title: "Re: Issue with Riak CS Pre-Authenticated URL"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-03-27T08:19:59-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10604"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg10603"
author_name: "Kelly McLaughlin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-03-27T08:19:59-07:00
---


Hey Dave. I'll try to reproduce this issue and get back to you about what I
find. Thanks.

Kelly

On Wed, Mar 27, 2013 at 8:38 AM, Dave Finster  wrote:

&gt; Just adding a bit more info at the request of shino1.
&gt;
&gt; I've got a URL
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; http://intranet-development.myriakcs.com/fdcddce0-78ca-0130-bc9c-482a14143152?AWSAccessKeyId=1PBIAEUBPVXSASP0HKLC&Expires=1364393156&Signature=WMRuKTl73/TcmBj1UyH5agdg+NU=
&gt;
&gt; which yields
&gt;
&gt; 
&gt; `AccessDenied`
&gt; Access Denied
&gt; 
&gt; /intranet-development/fdcddce0-78ca-0130-bc9c-482a14143152
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt;
&gt; I've got an nginx server out the front of 2 CS instances but I've also run
&gt; that URL directly against the CS instances and encountered the same result.
&gt; I don't see any entries in the logs for Riak/Riak CS/Stanchion about the
&gt; request aside from the 403 in the CS access logs.
&gt;
&gt; Cheers,
&gt; Dave
&gt;
&gt; Begin forwarded message:
&gt;
&gt; \\*From: \\*Dave Finster 
&gt; \\*Subject: \\*\\*Issue with Riak CS Pre-Authenticated URL\\*
&gt; \\*Date: \\*27 March 2013 11:46:41 PM AEST
&gt; \\*To: \\*riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt; Hi Everyone
&gt;
&gt; Have been playing with Riak and now CS for a little while and have got
&gt; everything working by just using the aws-sdk gem and dropped my CS
&gt; credentials and endpoint in. I do seem to have encountered an issue with
&gt; the generation of pre-authenticated urls, or the query string auth method.
&gt; The aws-sdk uses the S3Object.url\\_for method (source here:
&gt; https://github.com/aws/aws-sdk-ruby/blob/master/lib/aws/s3/s3\\_object.rb )
&gt; which appears to property follow the auth guidelines (
&gt; http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/dev/RESTAuthentication.html#RESTAuthenticationQueryStringAuth
&gt; ).
&gt;
&gt; I'm trying to do a simple GET request for a file in a bucket and every URL
&gt; that gets generated comes back with 'Access Denied' and 403. The CS access
&gt; logs also show the same.
&gt;
&gt; Wondering if anyone has any tips for diagnosing this issue further. At the
&gt; moment I've just got my Ruby code downloading the stored file to a TempFile
&gt; and then feeding that back to the client. Using s3cmd and aws-sdk to fetch
&gt; the file works fine - just seems to be something to do with the query
&gt; string auth method.
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; Dave
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

