---
title: "Re: Packagecloud.io issue"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-04-02T07:25:46-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15956"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15955"
author_name: "Alex De la rosa"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-04-02T07:25:46-07:00
---


Awesome, I just re-run the "aptitude update" and "aptitude safe-upgrade"
and riak didn't come again : )

Thanks!
Alex

On Wed, Apr 1, 2015 at 10:25 PM, Greg Cymbalski 
wrote:

&gt; Alex-
&gt; Turns out that there was an indexing issue with Packagecloud, which
&gt; should be resolved now. Good news, no need to respin packages :)
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; —Greg
&gt;
&gt; On Apr 1, 2015, at 11:38 AM, Greg Cymbalski  wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Alex-
&gt; We’ve managed to reproduce that issue and are researching it now. It
&gt; does appear to be something in the package itself; not sure how that didn’t
&gt; turn up until now.
&gt;
&gt; We’ll keep you updated. Thanks!
&gt; —Greg
&gt;
&gt; On Mar 30, 2015, at 9:00 AM, riak-users-requ...@lists.basho.com wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Date: Mon, 30 Mar 2015 11:55:41 +0200
&gt; From: Alex De la rosa 
&gt; To: riak-users 
&gt; Subject: Packagecloud.io issue
&gt; Message-ID:
&gt; 
&gt; Content-Type: text/plain; charset="utf-8"
&gt;
&gt; Hi there,
&gt;
&gt; I want to report again a problem I have with packagecloud.io; everytime I
&gt; do "aptitude update" I get a hit as if a new version of Riak is available
&gt; (that is not)... and I have to re-install Riak to a version I already have.
&gt;
&gt; I just did an "aptitude safe-upgrade" and upgraded Riak to version 2.0.5
&gt; (latest):
&gt;
&gt; # aptitude safe-upgrade
&gt; The following packages will be upgraded:
&gt; ... ... ... riak ... ... ... ... ... ...
&gt; [...]
&gt; Unpacking riak (2.0.5-1) over (2.0.1) ...
&gt; [...]
&gt;
&gt; # riak version
&gt; 2.0.5
&gt;
&gt; # aptitude update
&gt; Hit https://packagecloud.io trusty InRelease
&gt; Hit https://packagecloud.io trusty/main Sources
&gt; Hit https://packagecloud.io trusty/main amd64 Packages
&gt; Hit https://packagecloud.io trusty/main i386 Packages
&gt;
&gt; # aptitude safe-upgrade
&gt; The following packages will be upgraded:
&gt; riak
&gt; 1 packages upgraded, 0 newly installed, 0 to remove and 0 not upgraded.
&gt; Need to get 0 B/55.4 MB of archives. After unpacking 0 B will be used.
&gt; Do you want to continue? [Y/n/?]
&gt;
&gt; if i select Y i get the following:
&gt;
&gt; Unpacking riak (2.0.5-1) over (2.0.5-1) ...
&gt;
&gt; and everytime I check for updates, "riak" comes as requiring an update
&gt; although is not true. How to fix that? makes no sense it continues coming
&gt; as needing to be upgraded when is the same exact version.
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; Alex
&gt; -------------- next part --------------
&gt; An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
&gt; URL: &lt;
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/pipermail/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com/attachments/20150330/b2e2620c/attachment-0001.html
&gt; &gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

