---
title: "Re: Riak Search API: Returning matching documents"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-03-26T10:39:12-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13933"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13931"
author_name: "Eric Redmond"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-03-26T10:39:12-07:00
---


That is correct. Storing values in solr make the values redundant. That's
because solr and Riak are different systems with different storage
strategies. Since we only return the solr results, the only way we can
access the kv values would be to make a separate call, which is not much
different from your client making that same call.

As for separating Riak Search from kv entirely, this is a possibility we've
looked into, but it won't be ready for 2.0. I'm sorry to say that, for the
time being, the only option for your request is to store values in both
places.

Eric
On Mar 26, 2014 10:05 AM, "Elias Levy"  wrote:

&gt; On Wed, Mar 26, 2014 at 9:44 AM, Eric Redmond  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; The newest Riak Search 2 (yokozuna) allows you to create custom solr
&gt;&gt; schemas. One of the field options is to save the values you wish to index.
&gt;&gt; Then when you perform a search request, you can retrieve any of the stored
&gt;&gt; values with a field list (fl) property
&gt;&gt;
&gt; Certainly, but that makes the KV storage redundant. If that is really the
&gt; suggested solution, then there may as well be a null storage KV backend.
&gt;
&gt; Of curse, a null KV backend is not sufficient, given that writes to
&gt; Yokozuna happen asynchronously and that AAE is used to ensure KV and
&gt; Yomozuna are in sync. You'd also need to make writes to Yokozuna
&gt; synchronous with the client request and disable AAE as there is nothing to
&gt; sync with.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

