---
title: "Re: Keys that won't disappear from indexes"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-11-05T17:05:42-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12866"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12864"
author_name: "Brian Roach"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-11-05T17:05:42-08:00
---


Worth noting here; the current Java client is entirely UTF-8 centric
and is explicitly converting those bytes to UTF-8 strings, so yes ...
that's probably an issue here if I'm understanding things correctly.

Almost everything is copied to/from the protocol buffer message to
Java Strings using the ByteString.copyFromUtf8() and
ByteString.toStringUtf8() methods.

This is actually something that is addressed in the new 2.0 Java
client Dave and I are working on.

Thanks,
- Roach

On Tue, Nov 5, 2013 at 5:40 PM, Toby Corkindale
 wrote:
&gt; On 06/11/13 11:30, Evan Vigil-McClanahan wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; You can replace int\\_to\\_bin with int\\_to\\_str to make it easier to debug
&gt;&gt; in the future, I suppose. I am not sure how to get them to be fetched
&gt;&gt; as bytes, without may altering the client.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; You could just attach to the console and run whatever listing command
&gt;&gt; you're running there, which would give you the answer as unfiltered
&gt;&gt; erlang binaries, which are easy to understand.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Ah, I'm really not familiar enough with Erlang and Riak to be doing that.
&gt; Which API applies to console commands? I'll take a look. (Is it just the
&gt; same as the Erlang client?)
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Is this easily replicable on a new cluster?
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; I think it should be -- the only difference over default configuration is
&gt; that LevelDB is configured as the default backend.
&gt; Run basho\\_bench with the pbc-client test to generate the initial keys and
&gt; you should be set.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; T
&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Tue, Nov 5, 2013 at 4:17 PM, Toby Corkindale
&gt;&gt;  wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Hi Evan,
&gt;&gt;&gt; These keys were originally created by basho-bench, using:
&gt;&gt;&gt; {key\\_generator, {int\\_to\\_bin, {uniform\\_int, 10000}}}.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Of the 10k keys, it seems half could be removed, but not the other half.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Now I've tried storing keys with the same key as the un-deleteable ones,
&gt;&gt;&gt; waiting a minute, and then deleting them again.. this isn't seeming to
&gt;&gt;&gt; help!
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; I don't know if it's significant, but I'm working with the Java client
&gt;&gt;&gt; here
&gt;&gt;&gt; (protocol buffers). I note that the bad keys are basically just bytes,
&gt;&gt;&gt; not
&gt;&gt;&gt; actual ascii strings, and they do contain nulls.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Actually, here's something I just noticed -- the keys I'm getting from
&gt;&gt;&gt; the
&gt;&gt;&gt; index are repeating! It's the same 39 keys, repeated 128 times.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; O.o
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Are there any known bugs in the PBC interface when it comes to binary
&gt;&gt;&gt; keys?
&gt;&gt;&gt; I know the HTTP interface just crashes out completely.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; I'm fetching the keys in a manner that returns strings; is there a way to
&gt;&gt;&gt; fetch them as bytes? Maybe that would work better; I'm wondering if the
&gt;&gt;&gt; client is attempting to convert the bytes into unicode strings and
&gt;&gt;&gt; dropping
&gt;&gt;&gt; invalid characters?
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; On 05/11/13 03:44, Evan Vigil-McClanahan wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Hi Toby.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; It's possible, since they're stored separately, that the objects were
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; deleted but the indices were left in place because of some error (e.g.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; the operation failed for some reason between the object removal and
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; the index removal). One of the things on the feature list for the
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; next release is AAE of index values, which should take care of this
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; case. This is really rare, but not unknown. It'd be interesting to
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; know how you ended up with so many.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; In the mean time, the only way I can think of to get rid of them
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; (other than deleting them from the console, which would require taking
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; nodes down and a lot of manual effort), would be to write another
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; value that would have the same index, then delete it, which should
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; normally succeed.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; I'll ask around to see if there is anything that might work better.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

