---
title: "Re: Raik CS install and configure on Ubuntu 12.04 (error) Inbox x"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-08-27T23:15:46-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12144"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12112"
author_name: "Mark Phillips"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-08-27T23:15:46-07:00
---


Hey Abdul,

Check out the specifics on "Enabling PAM Based limits..." Give that a shot
and let us know if it doesn't solve the issue.

http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/ops/tuning/open-files-limit/#Linux
(you'll need to scroll down a bit.)

Mark


On Wed, Aug 21, 2013 at 11:53 PM, Abdul Hamed wrote:

&gt; hello,
&gt; thank you so much, as you said change ulimit -n 40000 but it
&gt; showing same error it is not restarting Riak services.
&gt;
&gt; openstack2@openstack2:~$ sudo riak start
&gt; [sudo] password for openstack2:
&gt; !!!!
&gt; !!!! WARNING: ulimit -n is 1024; 4096 is the recommended minimum.
&gt; !!!!
&gt; riak failed to start within 15 seconds,
&gt; see the output of 'riak console' for more information.
&gt; If you want to wait longer, set the environment variable
&gt; WAIT\\_FOR\\_ERLANG to the number of seconds to wait.
&gt;
&gt; openstack2@openstack2:~$ sudo riak console
&gt; Node 'riak@172.25.87.150' not responding to pings.
&gt; config is OK
&gt; !!!!
&gt; !!!! WARNING: ulimit -n is 1024; 4096 is the recommended minimum.
&gt; !!!!
&gt; Exec: /usr/lib/riak/erts-5.9.1/bin/erlexec -boot
&gt; /usr/lib/riak/releases/1.4.1/riak -config
&gt; /etc/riak/app.config -pa
&gt; /usr/lib/riak/lib/basho-patches -args\\_file /etc/riak/vm.args --
&gt; console
&gt; Root: /usr/lib/riak
&gt; Erlang R15B01 (erts-5.9.1) [source] [64-bit] [smp:1:1] [async-threads:64]
&gt; [kernel-poll:true]
&gt;
&gt; /usr/lib/riak/lib/os\\_mon-2.2.9/priv/bin/memsup: Erlang has closed.
&gt; Erlang
&gt; has closed
&gt; {"Kernel pid
&gt; terminated",application\\_controller,"{application\\_start\\_failure,riak\\_core,{shutdown,{riak\\_core\\_app,start,[normal,[]]}}}"}
&gt;
&gt; Crash dump was written to: /var/log/riak/erl\\_crash.dump
&gt; Kernel pid terminated (application\\_controller)
&gt; ({application\\_start\\_failure,riak\\_core,{shutdown,{riak\\_core\\_app,start,[normal,[]]}}})
&gt;
&gt; i am not getting where i did wrong...
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

