---
title: "Re: Reg. Keys not synced in RIAK Replication"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-11-13T07:05:36-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16765"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16764"
author_name: "Justin Pease"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-11-13T07:05:36-08:00
---


Hello Ram,

As you are inquiring about functionality of our Enterprise software, it
would be preferable to address this within our support desk that you would
have access to as an Enterprise customer. Please open a new support request
at help.basho.com. If you need help doing so, please email me directly and
I'd be happy to assist.

--

\\*Justin Pease\\*
VP, Services
Basho Technologies, Inc.



On Fri, Nov 13, 2015 at 2:59 AM, Ram C  wrote:

&gt; Team,
&gt;
&gt; I have a couple of RIAK clusters, both running on RIAK version 1.4.10. The
&gt; reason for 2 clusters is we are moving from one set of hardware to another.
&gt; Full sync and real-time sync is enabled between them. Issuing the
&gt; "riak-repl
&gt; status" command says that the sync is working fine.
&gt;
&gt; The issue I am facing is, the count of the keys do not match between the
&gt; source and the destination cluster in a specific application bucket. Based
&gt; on the key count on source and destination cluster, I could see that 4000+
&gt; keys that are present in the source, that are not present in the
&gt; destination.
&gt;
&gt; For example:
&gt; Source Cluster, Key Count - 104,000
&gt; Destination Cluster, Key Count - 100,000
&gt;
&gt; The Source Cluster is currently taking traffic, while Destination Cluster
&gt; is
&gt; idle. We plan to switch traffic once we have complete replication of keys.
&gt;
&gt; Could you please advise if there is a recommended way to identify/move
&gt; those
&gt; 4000 keys that are not synced to the destination cluster?
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; Ram C
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; View this message in context:
&gt; http://riak-users.197444.n3.nabble.com/Reg-Keys-not-synced-in-RIAK-Replication-tp4033690.html
&gt; Sent from the Riak Users mailing list archive at Nabble.com.
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

