---
title: "Re: Riak 2.0 release schedule?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-11-08T16:35:37-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12916"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12907"
author_name: "N. Tucker"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-11-08T16:35:37-08:00
---


Yes, that definitely helps. And I promise not to try to hold you to
those dates. :)


On Fri, Nov 8, 2013 at 2:53 PM, Jared Morrow  wrote:
&gt; Monday.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Just kidding. Let me state right up front that we tend to not promise any
&gt; dates. We release Riak versions when we believe they are done, tested every
&gt; way we know how, and generally are the highest quality. Something like 2.0
&gt; is even worse because there are so many new major features.
&gt;
&gt; Given that incredible initial warning that everything I'm about to say
&gt; should be taken with a grain of salt... We plan to release final 2.0 in the
&gt; first quarter of 2014. My gut feeling will be in the Jan-Feb timeframe, but
&gt; March is not out of the question. 1.4 was pretty close to when we thought
&gt; it would come out +/- weeks, but 1.3 was off by a few months due to a major
&gt; bug found in the Erlang VM during our 1.3 testing. So if things go as
&gt; expected, beginning of 2014 is our plan. If some major event happens or
&gt; some crazy bug is found, this of course could slip.
&gt;
&gt; I think I've sufficiently covered this email with escape hatches.
&gt;
&gt; Hope that helped a little bit,
&gt; -Jared
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Fri, Nov 8, 2013 at 1:49 PM, N. Tucker
&gt;  wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi Basho folks. I've been looking at some of the new stuff in Riak
&gt;&gt; 2.0 and am very excited about the possibility of replacing my aging
&gt;&gt; and borderline-overloaded Solr index with a Yokozuna-powered Riak
&gt;&gt; cluster. I'll be downloading the 2.0 Technical Preview to experiment
&gt;&gt; with, but I'm curious just how far off (in rough terms, obviously) a
&gt;&gt; production-ready Riak2.0/Yokozuna is. Have any announcements about
&gt;&gt; the target release date been made? I haven't seen any. Apologies if
&gt;&gt; it's been mentioned here, but I looked through the list archives and
&gt;&gt; didn't see it.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

