---
title: "Re: Riak versioning and handoff bug in 2.1.0"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2016-01-13T05:20:13-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16944"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16939"
author_name: "Magnus Kessler"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2016-01-13T05:20:13-08:00
---


On 13 January 2016 at 08:28, Vladyslav Zakhozhai &lt;
v.zakhoz...@smartweb.com.ua&gt; wrote:

&gt; Hi,
&gt;
&gt; According to the following link there is a bug in 2.1.0 which may cause
&gt; data loss:
&gt; https://docs.basho.com/riak/2.0.5/community/product-advisories/210-dataloss/
&gt;
&gt; I've installed 2.1.1 riak deb package from basho's repository on
&gt; packagecloud. But from riak stats I see that there is riak\\_core\\_version
&gt; 2.1.1 in that package but riak\\_kv - 2.1.0. I think that this version of
&gt; package is affected by this bug. Am I right?
&gt;

Hi Vladyslav,

The Riak-KV 2.1.0 release had a misconfigured default handoff\\_ip setting
which caused nodes to hand off partition data to themselves, leading to
potential data loss. This was fixed with an update to the riak\\_core module.
As the riak\\_kv module was not affected, its version number remained the
same for the bug-fix release 2.1.1 of Riak-KV.


&gt;
&gt; Is there available compatability list of riak, riak cs and stanchion for
&gt; recent versions?
&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riakcs/latest/cookbooks/Version-Compatibility/ is
&gt; outdated. Can I use basho's package 2.1.3 (riak\\_core\\_version: 2.1.5,
&gt; riak\\_kv\\_version: 2.1.2) with riak cs and stanchion 2.1.0 basho's package?
&gt;
&gt; Thank you in advance.
&gt;
&gt;
While largely accurate for historical releases, this page has not yet been
updated to take the compatibility statement from
https://github.com/basho/riak\\_cs/blob/2.1/RELEASE-NOTES.md into account:
"Riak S2 2.1 is designed to work with both Riak KV 2.0.5+ and 2.1.1+."

You can also use the currently released Riak-KV versions 2.1.3 and 2.0.6
with Riak-S2 2.1.1.

I hope this helps.

Kind regards,

Magnus

-- 
Magnus Kessler
Client Services Engineer
Basho Technologies Limited

Registered Office - 8 Lincoln’s Inn Fields London WC2A 3BP Reg 07970431
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

