---
title: "Re: riak search java client - sql injection"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-03-23T12:00:37-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15921"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15920"
author_name: "Alexander Sicular"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-03-23T12:00:37-07:00
---


I'll second what Chris said. Afaik, Solr does not solve this problem for you. 
Riak won't either. I just googled for "sanitize solr query inputs in java" and 
there are quite a few hits. I'd use that as a starting point but I'm a bit 
surprised there isn't a lib somewhere that makes this a non problem...

-Alexander 


@siculars
http://siculars.posthaven.com

Sent from my iRotaryPhone

&gt; On Mar 23, 2015, at 13:43, Jason W  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks Chris. I meant the query injection. Was really looking for an api 
&gt; that takes parametrized query in risk java client, do you know whether solr 
&gt; provides that? It would not be a easy task to do a 100% secure santize 
&gt; function, the above query is really just a simple use case.
&gt; 
&gt; Jason
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On Mon, Mar 23, 2015 at 1:49 PM, Christopher Meiklejohn 
&gt;&gt;  wrote:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; &gt; On Mar 22, 2015, at 7:03 PM, Jason W  wrote:
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; Hello,
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; I try to use the riak search java client, specifically the Search.Builder 
&gt;&gt; &gt; class, like the following
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; Search search = new Search.Builder("test", "\\_yz\\_rb:accounts AND email:" + 
&gt;&gt; &gt; [user-email]).
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; "[user-email]" is what user entered in the login form, my question is 
&gt;&gt; &gt; about sql injection, it seems like the java search client api doesn't 
&gt;&gt; &gt; prevent sql injection, are there any other api/methods that I can use to 
&gt;&gt; &gt; prevent this? Thank you
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Hello Jason,
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Search is not SQL; queries are specified in the Solr [1] query syntax so 
&gt;&gt; they’re not vulnerable to a SQL injection attack, given the basis of a SQL 
&gt;&gt; injection attack is to end a query and start a new one using unvalidated 
&gt;&gt; syntax. While it’s not directly the same thing, in the same class of 
&gt;&gt; attacks it’s possible for a user to add additional criteria to the query 
&gt;&gt; given the way you’ve written your search query. I highly recommend you 
&gt;&gt; sanitize your inputs before passing them to the query builder.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; - Chris
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; [1] https://wiki.apache.org/solr/SolrQuerySyntax
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Christopher Meiklejohn
&gt;&gt; Senior Software Engineer
&gt;&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt;&gt; cmeiklej...@basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

