---
title: "Re: Logical Export/Cluster Migration"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-09-05T11:27:00-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14870"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14852"
author_name: "Mark Rechler"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-09-05T11:27:00-07:00
---


Apologies for the delayed reply, was trying to export from riak 1.4.8. riak
2.0 would definitely address the ring size adjustment issue but I'd still
be curious as to best practices for moving data from one cluster to another
that may have different configs ie new default bucket properties and what
not. Thanks!


On Wed, Sep 3, 2014 at 12:22 PM, Dmitri Zagidulin 
wrote:

&gt; Mark,
&gt;
&gt; What version Riak are you trying to export from?
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Tue, Sep 2, 2014 at 1:07 PM, Mark Rechler  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hello All,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; What would be the best tool for moving data from one riak cluster to
&gt;&gt; another?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; To give some context, we needed to change the ring\\_creation\\_size and
&gt;&gt; build out a new cluster.
&gt;&gt; Once the cluster was built I initially tried riak-data-migrator
&gt;&gt; (https://github.com/basho-labs/riak-data-migrator) but that caused the
&gt;&gt; load across the old cluster to skyrocket and the tool would time out
&gt;&gt; before it could actually receive any data.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I then attempted riak-admin backup/restore. The backup took ~ 2 days.
&gt;&gt; The restore seemed much slower going ~ 10 megabytes/hour. Needing to
&gt;&gt; fill 26gb/node this seemed impractical.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Are there any other recommended ways to migrate data? We're using
&gt;&gt; leveldb as the only back-end. Appreciate any help.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt; Mark
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; Mark Rechler
&gt;&gt; Infrastructure Engineer, Bitly
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;


-- 
Mark Rechler
Infrastructure Engineer, Bitly 
+1.201.500.8637
Twitter  | Facebook 
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

