---
title: "Re: Issues with partition distribution across nodes"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2017-05-24T07:48:06-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg18239"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg18238"
author_name: "Russell Brown"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2017-05-24T07:48:06-07:00
---



On 24 May 2017, at 15:44, Denis  wrote:

&gt; Hi Russell
&gt; 
&gt; Thank you for your suggestions. I found diag is saying: "The following 
&gt; preflists do not satisfy the n\\_val. Please add more nodes". It seems because 
&gt; ring size (128) divided in 6 nodes is hard to arrange. 
&gt; The history of our cluster is long story, cause we testing it in our lab. 
&gt; Initially it was deployed with 5 nodes without issues. Then it was expanded 
&gt; to 6 nodes, without issues again. After some time all storage space on whole 
&gt; cluster was fully utilized and we had to remove all data from leveldb dir, 
&gt; flush ring dir and rebuild cluster. This has been done by adding all 6 nodes 
&gt; at one time, so this may be the case. We can try to flush cluster data once 
&gt; again and then add nodes one by one (committing cluster change each time), 
&gt; waiting to partition transfer to end each time.

Or add two more nodes in one go, might be quicker, and if time is money, 
cheaper.

&gt; 
&gt; 2017-05-24 15:44 GMT+03:00 Russell Brown :
&gt; Hi,
&gt; 
&gt; This is just a quick reply since this is somewhat a current topic on the ML.
&gt; 
&gt; On 24 May 2017, at 12:57, Denis Gudtsov  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; &gt; Hello
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; We have 6-nodes cluster with ring size 128 configured. The problem is that
&gt; &gt; two partitions has replicas only on two nodes rather than three as required
&gt; &gt; (n\\_val=3). We have tried several times to clean leveldb and ring directories
&gt; &gt; and then rebuild cluster, but this issue is still present.
&gt; 
&gt; There was a fairly long discussion about this very issue recently (see 
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/pipermail/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com/2017-May/019281.html)
&gt; 
&gt; I ran a little code and the following {RingSize, NodeCount, IsViolated} 
&gt; tuples were the result. If you built any of these clusters from scratch (i.e. 
&gt; you started NodeCount nodes, and used riak-admin cluster join, riak-admin 
&gt; cluster plan, riak-admin cluster commit to create a cluster of NodeCount from 
&gt; scratch) then you have tail violations in your ring.
&gt; 
&gt; [{16,3,true},
&gt; {16,5,true},
&gt; {16,7,true},
&gt; {16,13,true},
&gt; {16,14,true},
&gt; {32,3,true},
&gt; {32,5,true},
&gt; {32,6,true},
&gt; {32,10,true},
&gt; {64,3,true},
&gt; {64,7,true},
&gt; {64,9,true},
&gt; {128,3,true},
&gt; {128,5,true},
&gt; {128,6,true},
&gt; {128,7,true},
&gt; {128,9,true},
&gt; {128,14,true},
&gt; {256,3,true},
&gt; {256,5,true},
&gt; {256,11,true},
&gt; {512,3,true},
&gt; {512,5,true},
&gt; {512,6,true},
&gt; {512,7,true},
&gt; {512,10,true}]
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; &gt; How can we diagnose where the issue is and fix it?
&gt; 
&gt; WRT your problem, a quick experiment looks like adding 2 new nodes will solve 
&gt; your problem, just adding one doesn’t look like it does. I tried just adding 
&gt; one new node and still had a single violated preflist, but I have just thrown 
&gt; a little experiment together so I could well be wrong. It doesn’t actually 
&gt; build any clusters, and uses the claim code out of context, ymmv
&gt; 
&gt; &gt; Is there any way how we
&gt; &gt; can assign partition to node manually?
&gt; 
&gt; I don’t know of a way, but that would be very useful.
&gt; 
&gt; Do you remember if this cluster was built all at once as a 6-node cluster, or 
&gt; has it grown over time? Have you run the command riak-admin diag 
&gt; ring\\_preflists as documented here 
&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riak/kv/2.2.3/setup/upgrading/checklist/#confirming-configuration-with-riaknostic?
&gt; 
&gt; Sorry I can’t be more help
&gt; 
&gt; Cheers
&gt; 
&gt; Russell
&gt; 
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Please find output of member-status below and screen from riak control ring
&gt; &gt; status:
&gt; &gt; [root@riak01 ~]# riak-admin member-status
&gt; &gt; ================================= Membership
&gt; &gt; ==================================
&gt; &gt; Status Ring Pending Node
&gt; &gt; -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
&gt; &gt; valid 17.2% -- 'riak@riak01.
&gt; &gt; valid 17.2% -- 'riak@riak02.
&gt; &gt; valid 16.4% -- 'riak@riak03.
&gt; &gt; valid 16.4% -- 'riak@riak04.
&gt; &gt; valid 16.4% -- 'riak@riak05.
&gt; &gt; valid 16.4% -- 'riak@riak06.
&gt; &gt; -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
&gt; &gt; Valid:6 / Leaving:0 / Exiting:0 / Joining:0 / Down:0
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Thank you.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; --
&gt; &gt; View this message in context: 
&gt; &gt; http://riak-users.197444.n3.nabble.com/Issues-with-partition-distribution-across-nodes-tp4035179.html
&gt; &gt; Sent from the Riak Users mailing list archive at Nabble.com.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; 


\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

