---
title: "Re: Riak .NET Client Question"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2016-04-19T14:56:11-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg17238"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg17237"
author_name: "Luke Bakken"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2016-04-19T14:56:11-07:00
---


Hi Jared,

The Execute method and the client object in general are thread-safe.
You can see an example here:

https://github.com/basho/riak-dotnet-client/blob/develop/src/RiakClientTests.Live/ParallelExample.cs

The next version of the client will have additional support for
batching command for execution.

--
Luke Bakken
Engineer
lbak...@basho.com


On Mon, Apr 18, 2016 at 7:53 AM, Phillips, Jared R
 wrote:
&gt; All,
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Using the Riak .NET client, what is the best way to execute CRDT commands as
&gt; part of a batch? For example, I would like to wrap the FetchMap command
&gt; together with other commands and send them to Riak as a group so as to
&gt; reduce the number of round trips to the server. My API has no expectations
&gt; regarding execution order or transactional behavior. It appears this was
&gt; possible at one point using the DtFetchMap method on the IRiakBatchClient
&gt; interface, but it is now marked as deprecated along with all the other “Dt”
&gt; methods on this interface. Since the consumers of my API only rely on
&gt; batching as a performance optimization, I am currently invoking commands
&gt; individually using the Execute method on the IRiakClient interface. I am
&gt; hoping to improve on this though.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Any guidance would be appreciated as I am very new to Riak.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Regards,
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Jared Phillips
&gt; Software Scientist
&gt;
&gt; Technology & Innovation
&gt;
&gt; T: 256.730.8205
&gt; E: jared.phill...@hexagonsi.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Hexagon Safety & Infrastructure
&gt;
&gt; 305 Intergraph Way
&gt;
&gt; Madison, AL, 35758
&gt; hexagonsafetyinfrastructure.com| LinkedIn | Facebook | Twitter
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

