---
title: "Re: Using $bucket index for listing keys"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2016-03-11T08:51:56-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg17159"
author_name: "Oleksiy Krivoshey"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2016-03-11T08:51:56-08:00
---


Hi Magnus,

Yes, thank you. Though I'm stuck a bit. When I experienced recursive
behaviour with paginated $bucket query I tried to create Yokozuna Solr
index with an empty schema (just \\_yz\\_\\* fields). Unfortunately querying
Yokozuna gives me inconsistent number of results as described in my another
email in this mailing list. Hopefully it will be solved as well :)

On 11 March 2016 at 18:44, Magnus Kessler  wrote:

&gt; Hi Oleksiy,
&gt;
&gt; As Russel pointed out, 2i queries, including $bucket queries, are only
&gt; supported when the backend supports ordered keys. This is currently not the
&gt; case with bitcask.
&gt;
&gt; It appears, though, that you have discovered a bug where the multi-backend
&gt; module accepts the query despite the fact that the actually configured
&gt; backend for the bucket(-type) cannot support the query. I'll make the
&gt; engineering team aware of this.
&gt;
&gt; At this point in time I can only recommend that you do not use the $bucket
&gt; query with your configuration and use an alternative, such as Solr-based
&gt; search instead.
&gt;
&gt; Kind Regards,
&gt;
&gt; Magnus
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Magnus Kessler
&gt; Client Services Engineer
&gt; Basho Technologies Limited
&gt;
&gt; Registered Office - 8 Lincoln’s Inn Fields London WC2A 3BP Reg 07970431
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

