---
title: "Re: anti_entropy_expire"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-12-27T13:42:02-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13334"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13333"
author_name: "Matthew Von-Maszewski"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-12-27T13:42:02-08:00
---


I have a query out to the developer that can better respond to your follow-up 
questions. It might be Monday before we get a reply due to the holidays.

Do you happen to know how much data is in the leveldb dataset and/or one vnode? 
 Not sure it will change the response, but might be nice to have that info 
available.

Matthew

P.S. Unrelated to your question: Riak 1.4.4 is available for download. It 
has a couple of nice bug fixes for leveldb.


On Dec 27, 2013, at 2:08 PM, Edgar Veiga  wrote:

&gt; Ok, thanks for confirming!
&gt; 
&gt; Is it normal, that this action affects the overall state of the cluster? On 
&gt; the 26th It started the regeneration and the the response times of the 
&gt; cluster raised to never seen values. It was a day of heavy traffic but 
&gt; everything was going quite ok until it started the regeneration process..
&gt; 
&gt; Have you got any advices about changing those app.config values? My cluster 
&gt; is running smoothly for the past 6 months and I don't want to start all over 
&gt; again :) 
&gt; 
&gt; Best Regards
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On 27 December 2013 18:56, Matthew Von-Maszewski  wrote:
&gt; Yes. Confirmed.
&gt; 
&gt; There are options available in app.config to control how often this occurs 
&gt; and how many vnodes rehash at once: defaults are every 7 days and two vnodes 
&gt; per server at a time.
&gt; 
&gt; Matthew Von-Maszewski
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Dec 27, 2013, at 13:50, Edgar Veiga  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Hi!
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; I've been trying to find what may be the cause of this.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Every once in a week, all the nodes in my riak cluster start to do some kind 
&gt;&gt; of operation that lasts at least for two days. 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; You can watch a sample of my munin logs regarding the last week in here:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; https://cloudup.com/imWiBwaC6fm
&gt;&gt; Take a look at the days 19 and 20, and now it has started again on the 26...
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; I'm suspecting that this may be caused by the aae hash trees being 
&gt;&gt; regenerated, as you say in your documentation:
&gt;&gt; For added protection, Riak periodically (default: once a week) clears and 
&gt;&gt; regenerates all hash trees from the on-disk K/V data.
&gt;&gt; Can you confirm me that this may be the root of the "problem" and if it's 
&gt;&gt; normal for the action to last for two days?
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; I'm using riak 1.4.2 on 6 machines, with centOS. The backend is levelDB.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Best Regards,
&gt;&gt; Edgar Veiga
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

