---
title: "Re: Unrecognized message {error, timeout}"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-05-22T08:02:30-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14258"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14257"
author_name: "Sean Cribbs"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-05-22T08:02:30-07:00
---


Henning,

This happens when the process servicing a client connection receives a
"late message" from some previous request it made to the rest of the Riak
cluster, but perhaps was already in-flight when the server process decided
to move on. They are undesirable, but basically benign. I believe in Riak
2.0, that log message has been downgraded to a lower severity (if not, it
should be!) By chance was this a MapReduce request?


On Thu, May 22, 2014 at 7:31 AM, Henning Verbeek wrote:

&gt; We have just started building up experience with Riak, therefore I
&gt; apologise if this question is stupid.
&gt;
&gt; We are using three very small nodes for Riak development (2GB RAM,
&gt; 1CPU). We are using a default Riak 1.4.8 on debian wheezy. The clients
&gt; are Java applications, using the 1.4.4 java library and connecting to
&gt; their local Riak instance via protocol buffers.
&gt;
&gt; Every now and then, mostly when deleting elements, the requests hang
&gt; until they timeout and we see many of these log messages in
&gt; /var/log/riak/error.log:
&gt; 2014-05-22 15:16:05.418 [error]
&gt; &lt;0.10982.3&gt;@riak\\_api\\_pb\\_server:handle\\_info:141 Unrecognized message
&gt; {1846665,{error,timeout}}
&gt;
&gt; I believe that this may be triggered by testing the robustness
&gt; (stopping riak on one node while handling traffic, then starting it up
&gt; again), but why would it still occur, even long after all nodes are up
&gt; again.
&gt;
&gt; Are we doing something wrong, or can I ignore this message?
&gt;
&gt; Thanks for your advice,
&gt; Henning
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;



-- 
Sean Cribbs 
Software Engineer
Basho Technologies, Inc.
http://basho.com/
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

