---
title: "Re: Scaling Riak CS to hundreds or thousands of servers"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-07-25T08:09:15-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11753"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg11752"
author_name: "James Martin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-07-25T08:09:15-07:00
---


Just one caveat on stanchion clustering -- I would say it is technically
possible to do so with some of the linux clustering tools, but we have no
official guides or support for such a configuration.

- James


On Thu, Jul 25, 2013 at 10:56 AM, John Daily  wrote:

&gt; Good questions, Andre, thanks for reaching out.
&gt;
&gt; &gt; How is the Scaling of Raik CS when setting up a few hundred servers in a
&gt; cluster?
&gt;
&gt; The upper limit of a cluster size depends on traffic load, hardware, and
&gt; network capacity, but anything approaching 100 servers is likely to run
&gt; into trouble due to inherent limitations in both Riak and the Erlang VM
&gt; itself. An Erlang cluster is a full mesh, so the cluster overhead grows
&gt; significantly with the number of servers.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Does it make sense, to build a cluster of that size, or is it
&gt; recommended to have smaller pools of clusters and shard the Files over more
&gt; than one cluster?
&gt;
&gt; Definitely should look at deploying multiple clusters.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; &gt; What about stanchion as the potetial single point of failure, how to
&gt; prevent it from corupting the System? If I got it right, Stanchion handles
&gt; the IDs of Buckets and some user stuff. So if no further Buckets or users
&gt; need to be created, there is no need for stanchion at that time and
&gt; up-/downloading can go on as usual?
&gt;
&gt; You're correct: user accounts and user buckets are the reason we need a
&gt; consensus system, and thus the reason Stanchion exists. For existing
&gt; users/buckets, as you indicate, files can be transferred without any
&gt; involvement from Stanchion.
&gt;
&gt; It is possible to cluster Stanchion using traditional cluster tools.
&gt;
&gt; (Why Amazon chose to use a global namespace for buckets is a mystery
&gt; beyond my ken.)
&gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; As I want to use riak cs for large files (50MB-15GB) is it possible to
&gt; raise the chunk size up to these Filesizes, to prevent the system from
&gt; heavy network traffic?
&gt;
&gt; Definitely not. Erlang's distribution protocol will behave badly with
&gt; objects that large.
&gt;
&gt; -John Daily
&gt; Technical Evangelist
&gt; Basho Technologies
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

