---
title: "Re: Java client blocked at shutdown?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-11-05T11:01:31-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12857"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12851"
author_name: "Brian Roach"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-11-05T11:01:31-08:00
---


That particular chunk of the old underlying PB client is ugly and
needs to die in a fire, but it shouldn't be possible for it to cause
Tomcat to get stuck.

That Timer is set to be a daemon therefore it can't prevent the JVM
from exiting. On top of that the only time it has a task scheduled is
during a streaming operation.

I suspect you're just seeing that thread still there because another
thread is the problem, and since it's a daemon it's going to be around
until ... the JVM isn't.

- Roach

On Tue, Nov 5, 2013 at 7:05 AM, Guido Medina  wrote:
&gt; You may be right, we are still investigating other 2 threads, was worth to
&gt; add this one to the list just in case, daemon threads by contract should go
&gt; down with no issues when JDK is going down.
&gt;
&gt; Guido.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On 05/11/13 13:59, Konstantin Kalin wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Strange. If you call shutdown of Riak client it shouldn't stop Tomcat
&gt; shutdown anymore. This is that I learn from source code. I called the method
&gt; in Servlet listener and never had issues after that. Before I had similar
&gt; behavior like you have.
&gt;
&gt; Thank you,
&gt; Konstantin.
&gt;
&gt; On Nov 5, 2013 5:31 AM, "Guido Medina"  wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; That's done already, I'm looking at the source now, not sure of the
&gt;&gt; following timer needs to be cancelled when Riak client shutdown method is
&gt;&gt; called:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; public abstract class RiakStreamClient implements Iterable {
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; static Timer TIMER = new Timer("riak-stream-timeout-thread", true);
&gt;&gt; ...
&gt;&gt; ...
&gt;&gt; }
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Guido.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On 05/11/13 13:29, Konstantin Kalin wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; You need to call shutdown method of Riak client when you are stopping your
&gt;&gt; application.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thank you,
&gt;&gt; Konstantin.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Nov 5, 2013, at 5:06, Guido Medina  wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Sorry, I meant "stopping Tomcat from shutting down properly"...I must have
&gt;&gt; been thinking of some FPS night game.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On 05/11/13 13:04, Guido Medina wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; We are tracing some threads at our webapp which are stopping Tomcat from
&gt;&gt; shooting down properly, one of them seems to be related with Riak Java
&gt;&gt; client, here is the repeating stack trace once all services have been
&gt;&gt; stopped properly:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thread Name: riak-stream-timeout-thread
&gt;&gt; State: in Object.wait()
&gt;&gt; Java Stack trace:
&gt;&gt; at java.lang.Object.wait(Native Method)
&gt;&gt; - waiting on [0x00000004bb4001a0] (a java.util.TaskQueue)
&gt;&gt; at java.lang.Object.wait(Object.java:503)
&gt;&gt; at java.util.TimerThread.mainLoop(Timer.java:526)
&gt;&gt; - locked [0x00000004bb4001a0] (a java.util.TaskQueue)
&gt;&gt; at java.util.TimerThread.run(Timer.java:505)
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks for the help,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Guido.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

