---
title: "Riak Recap - Jan 23 2015"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-01-23T09:39:40-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15578"
author_name: "Matthew Brender"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-01-23T09:39:40-08:00
---


Good morning, afternoon and evening everyone.

I'm Matt Brender, new to Basho and focused on efforts out here in the open
source portion of the Riak world. Tyler Hannan recommended that the very
first task I take on is bringing back the Recap and Mark confirmed it was
valuable to others. I hope you enjoy it.

\\*State of the Union\\*

Since we haven't had one of these in a while, here is an update on the
latest software we have available.

 - Riak is at 2.0.4  with 1.4.12
  available as well
 - Riak CS is at 1.5.3 

\\*Announcements\\*

 - I (Matt) have joined on as a Developer Advocate. If you're wondering
 who I am, you can check out this blog post
 
 or ping me on Twitter 
 - The Riak Recap is back up and running. We're starting with the goal of
 every other week and will adjust based on feedback
 - There's an open TODO of tracking unanswered questions coming across
 IRC & email. More to come on that
 - Feedback is not just welcome, but is necessary. More ways of working
 on prioritization are in the plans. Send emails, tweets or otherwise to me
 in the meantime

\\*Event news\\*

 - We're co-hosting the New Stack Meetup
 

 on March 3rd in Seattle
 - We have multiple Basho engineers speaking at Erlang Factory
 

 on 26-27 March
 - We'll announce Meetup events in San Francisco and New York City in the
 next few weeks. Join any of these groups  to
 keep up with the news

\\*Dev news\\*

 - I noticed some cool projects popping up for node.js developers,
 including riak-mock-server available here
  along with some very
 cool riak tools for node developers 

\\*Study material\\*

 - It's worth revisiting the RICON 2014 videos
  as we kick off the new year
 - Our own Christopher Meiklejohn 
 posted some incredible slides including an introduction to Riak
  and an
 introduction to webmachine
 

That's it for this round. Thanks for reading.

Cheers,
\\*Matt Brender | Developer Advocacy Lead\\*
Basho Technologies
t: @mjbrender 
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

