---
title: "Re: Riak as backend for Titian graph DB"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-11-17T00:28:34-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13002"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12998"
author_name: "bernie"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-11-17T00:28:34-08:00
---


Thank you Eric and Russell,

I forwarded your replies to Matthias. Unfortunately it doesn't sound too
encouraging, but I hope you will get around to looking into Titan
integration.

Best regards,
Bernie


On Sat, Nov 16, 2013 at 8:49 AM, Russell Brown  wrote:

&gt; To add what Eric said: I don’t know Titan, but the phrase “atomic edge
&gt; operations” suggests they require properties from the datastore that Riak’s
&gt; eventually consistent datatypes can’t satisfy.
&gt;
&gt; All that said, we have been asked by a customer to look at integration
&gt; with Titan, and when time permits, we will.
&gt;
&gt; Cheers
&gt;
&gt; Russell
&gt;
&gt; On 16 Nov 2013, at 06:58, Eric Redmond  wrote:
&gt;
&gt; &gt; The new sets aren't sorted, they're just proper sets.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Riak isn't fundamentally changing from a key value store, the values of
&gt; the new data types are just convergent. So you still retrieve the whole
&gt; value at a time, no partial values (eg. subsets).
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Eric
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; On Nov 15, 2013, at 6:39 PM, bernie  wrote:
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; Hi,
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; there was a thread on the Google's Titan group about using Riak with
&gt; Titan. Matthias (one of the lead developers) initial response was that
&gt; Riak's data model was difficult to work with for their use case.
&gt; &gt;&gt; When I asked him about the new 2.0 data types he answered the following
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; "Sets seem close to what we need. At least that will allow us to do
&gt; atomic edge operations. Is it possible to specify a sort order on those
&gt; sets and retrieve subsets or can I only retrieve the set as a whole?"
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; Since I could not find the information, I am hoping somebody here will
&gt; be able to help out.
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; Thanks in advance,
&gt; &gt;&gt; Bernie
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/aureliusgraphs/sP0uS6A47IA
&gt; &gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; &gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

