---
title: "Re: [ANN] riak-js v0.10.0"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-05-03T09:45:08-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11008"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg11006"
author_name: "Mathias Meyer"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-05-03T09:45:08-07:00
---


Sebastian,

I have yet to look into that, but if you'd be willing to share your hack, maybe 
I could integrate that directly into riak-js? :)

Thanks!

Cheers, Mathias 




On Friday, 3. May 2013 at 18:00, Sebastian Cohnen wrote:

&gt; Hey Mathias,
&gt; 
&gt; this is awesome news, thanks for your work! I'll see what I can do to test 
&gt; the new version against production traffic.
&gt; 
&gt; One question though: I don't know the work of Andrew, but do you support real 
&gt; HTTP keep alive? (not node.js' pseudo keep alive). I had to implement my own 
&gt; http agent and inject it into a previous version of riak-js to get useful 
&gt; performance. I'd like to drop that hack.
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; Best
&gt; 
&gt; Sebastian
&gt; 
&gt; On 03.05.2013, at 17:55, Mathias Meyer  (mailto:me...@paperplanes.de)&gt; wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; &gt; Heya,
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; Just shipped riak-js 0.10.0, with support for Protocol Buffers: 
&gt; &gt; https://npmjs.org/package/riak-js
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; To use protobufs, specify a different API option when creating a client:
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; var riak = require('riak-js').getClient({api: 'protobuf'})
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; I'd love to have some feedback on how the protobuffs support works with 
&gt; &gt; real workloads, if anyone feels like trying it out. Please report any 
&gt; &gt; issues you're seeing: https://github.com/mostlyserious/riak-js/issues
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; Currently it's still using a single connection, but I'll work on adding 
&gt; &gt; connection pooling next. Already merged Andrew J. Stone's support for 
&gt; &gt; pooled HTTP connection into the current master, will work off that for 
&gt; &gt; protobuffs as well.
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; Thanks to Nathan LaFreniere for his awesome riakpbc and protobuf.js 
&gt; &gt; libraries, which helped me a lot!
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; Cheers, Mathias
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 


\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

