---
title: "Re: Riak PB Client for Node.js"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-06-03T16:48:10-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11211"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg11209"
author_name: "Mark Phillips"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-06-03T16:48:10-07:00
---


Hey Pedro,

Thanks for passing this along. I just opened a PR [0] to add it to the Riak
Docs (along with the code Troy Malhese just released [1]).

Which reminds me - if anyone else has code that should be on the community
projects page, don't hesitate to add it.

At the risk of taking this totally off-topic, can you talk a bit about how
CrowdProcess is using the client/Riak? "We're turning the internet into a
super computer" sounds pretty ambitious. I'm mostly curious how Riak plays
into that. :)

Mark


[0] https://github.com/basho/basho\\_docs/pull/418
[1] https://github.com/natural/zukai


On Mon, Jun 3, 2013 at 1:29 AM, Pedro Teixeira wrote:

&gt; Riak-pb  is a Riak Node.js
&gt; client module that uses Protocol Buffers (instead of HTTP) to talk to Riak.
&gt; It has the following features:
&gt;
&gt; - Automatically reconnects if disconnected
&gt; - Can be configured with an array of nodes, load-balancing between them
&gt; - Uses connection pooling, using many connections in parallel to speed
&gt; up concurrent requests
&gt; - Automatically retries if client gets disconnected during request
&gt; - Provides a streaming interface for when Riak uses streaming replies
&gt;
&gt; Riak-pb is entirely written in JavaScript, using 
&gt; protobuf.js to
&gt; encode and decode protocol buffers.
&gt;
&gt; (Because it makes use of Streams2, Riak-pb is only compatible with Node.js
&gt; &gt;= 0.10).
&gt;
&gt; Enjoy!
&gt;
&gt; -Pedro
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

