---
title: "Re: Riak Search and Sorting"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-07-18T07:13:32-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11589"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg11588"
author_name: "Jeremiah Peschka"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-07-18T07:13:32-07:00
---


I just confirmed that today I'm getting the correct sorting in the browser
but not in CorrugatedIron. I'm about to start in on a day of working with a
client. Will verify this afternoon.

---
Jeremiah Peschka - Founder, Brent Ozar Unlimited
MCITP: SQL Server 2008, MVP
Cloudera Certified Developer for Apache Hadoop


On Thu, Jul 18, 2013 at 6:55 AM, Ryan Zezeski  wrote:

&gt; Jeremiah,
&gt;
&gt; After a quick glance I don't see anything obvious in the code. I notice
&gt; you have a presort defined. By any chance, if you remove the presort, do
&gt; you get a correct sorting on the creation\\_dt field?
&gt;
&gt; -Z
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Wed, Jul 17, 2013 at 5:30 PM, Jeremiah Peschka &lt;
&gt; jeremiah.pesc...@gmail.com&gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; I'm attempting to sort data with Riak Search and have run into a distinct
&gt;&gt; lack of sorting.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; When using curl (The Fullest Featurest Riak Client EVAR™), I query the
&gt;&gt; following URL:
&gt;&gt; http://localhost:10038/solr/posts/select?q=title\\_txt:google&presort=key&sort=creation\\_dt&rows=500
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Being aware that results are sorted AFTER filtering on the server side, I
&gt;&gt; adjusted my query to accept too many rows: there are 335 rows that meet my
&gt;&gt; query criteria. However, Riak Search returns 10 sorted by some random
&gt;&gt; criteria that I'm not aware of (it's not score, that's for sure).
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Is this behavior expected? Is there something that I've missed in my
&gt;&gt; query?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; ---
&gt;&gt; Jeremiah Peschka - Founder, Brent Ozar Unlimited
&gt;&gt; MCITP: SQL Server 2008, MVP
&gt;&gt; Cloudera Certified Developer for Apache Hadoop
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

