---
title: "Re: object sizes"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-04-13T03:48:07-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16001"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15997"
author_name: "bryan hunt"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-04-13T03:48:07-07:00
---


Alex,


Maps and Sets are stored just like a regular Riak object, but using a 
particular data structure and object serialization format. As you have 
observed, there is an overhead, and you want to monitor the growth of these 
data structures.

It is possible to write a MapReduce map function (in Erlang) which retrieves a 
provided object by type/bucket/id and returns the size of it's data. Would such 
a thing be of use?

It would not be hard to write such a module, and I might even have some code 
for doing so if you are interested. There are also reasonably good examples in 
our documentation - http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/dev/advanced/mapreduce

I haven't looked at the Python PB API in a while, but I'm reasonably certain it 
supports the invocation of MapReduce jobs.

Bryan


&gt; On 10 Apr 2015, at 13:51, Alex De la rosa  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; Also, I forgot, i'm most interested on bucket\\_types instead of simple riak 
&gt; buckets. Being able how my mutable data inside a MAP/SET has grown.
&gt; 
&gt; For a traditional standard bucket I can calculate the size of what I'm 
&gt; sending before, so Riak won't get data bigger than 1MB. Problem arise in 
&gt; MAPS/SETS that can grown.
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; Alex
&gt; 
&gt; On Fri, Apr 10, 2015 at 2:47 PM, Alex De la rosa  &gt; wrote:
&gt; Well... using the HTTP Rest API would make no sense when using the PB API... 
&gt; would be extremely costly to maintain, also it may include some extra bytes 
&gt; on the transport.
&gt; 
&gt; I would be interested on being able to know the size via Python itself using 
&gt; the PB API as I'm doing.
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks anyway,
&gt; Alex
&gt; 
&gt; On Fri, Apr 10, 2015 at 1:58 PM, Ciprian Manea  &gt; wrote:
&gt; Hi Alex,
&gt; 
&gt; You can always query the size of a riak object using `curl` and the REST API:
&gt; 
&gt; i.e. curl -I :8098/buckets/test/keys/demo
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; Regards,
&gt; Ciprian
&gt; 
&gt; On Thu, Apr 9, 2015 at 12:11 PM, Alex De la rosa  &gt; wrote:
&gt; Hi there,
&gt; 
&gt; I'm using the python client (by the way).
&gt; 
&gt; obj = RIAK.bucket('my\\_bucket').get('my\\_key')
&gt; 
&gt; Is there any way to know the actual size of an object stored in Riak? to make 
&gt; sure something mutable (like a set) didn't added up to more than 1MB in 
&gt; storage size.
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks!
&gt; Alex
&gt; 
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com 
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

