---
title: "Re: CRDT on Riak 2.0"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-03-04T07:08:37-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13745"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13762"
author_name: "Sean Cribbs"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-03-04T07:08:37-08:00
---


Yes, we will be investigating that.


On Tue, Mar 4, 2014 at 9:03 AM, EmiNarcissus  wrote:

&gt;
&gt; Hi Sean,
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Thanks for the clarification. So after 2.1 it might add those capabilities
&gt; ?
&gt;
&gt; On 2014年3月4日 at 下午11:02:53, Sean Cribbs (s...@basho.com) wrote:
&gt; &gt; Hi Tim,
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; We punted on sub-type queries for 2.0. We intend to address them in 2.1,
&gt; so
&gt; &gt; yes you must fetch the entire set or map in order to find out things like
&gt; &gt; membership and cardinality.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; On Tue, Mar 4, 2014 at 8:01 AM, EmiNarcissus wrote:
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; Hi,
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; I’m now porting the riak 2.0 driver for twisted, it works beautifully
&gt; now
&gt; &gt; &gt; with what Yokozuna provides, also have a great back-port ability,really
&gt; &gt; &gt; appreciate everything what this team have brought us XD. But because it
&gt; &gt; &gt; still in lacks of document, I must read the implementation both from
&gt; ruby
&gt; &gt; &gt; and riakc-erl repo to get it started(erlang is okay for me, but I’m not
&gt; &gt; &gt; quite familiar with ruby,sadly looks like only ruby’s client
&gt; implementation
&gt; &gt; &gt; is throughly right now).
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; So here is my question on the datatype implementation on CRDT system.
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; From the code I can tell , fetch\\_dt/update\\_dt/modify\\_dt is what have
&gt; been
&gt; &gt; &gt; exposed from the pbc interface. Now I’m more focused on Set object, so
&gt; each
&gt; &gt; &gt; time client will fetch the whole set(fetch\\_dt) from the server and
&gt; build
&gt; &gt; &gt; the set on the local end, and maintain a add/remove operation list to
&gt; send
&gt; &gt; &gt; to the server when user does a update/add/remove action.
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; But I’m a little bit confused here, like what redis provides, a set
&gt; have a
&gt; &gt; &gt; ismember function is being done on the server instead of fetch/test
&gt; manner.
&gt; &gt; &gt; Does this available for Riak 2.0 Set datatype(just like what Riak1.4
&gt; &gt; &gt; Counter object provided, it will do the operation on the server
&gt; &gt; &gt; side,MISMEMBER a b, it will either return True/False). Currently I
&gt; only can
&gt; &gt; &gt; see add/update/delete operation on pbc proto file, and don’t have
&gt; something
&gt; &gt; &gt; alike, is that in a Todo list ? or will not implement at all(I will
&gt; &gt; &gt; reconsider how the data should be structured if so). This feature will
&gt; be
&gt; &gt; &gt; really helpful when the dataset is big enough(like more than 10k
&gt; values in
&gt; &gt; &gt; it.)
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; Best,
&gt; &gt; &gt; Tim Lee
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; &gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; --
&gt; &gt; Sean Cribbs
&gt; &gt; Software Engineer
&gt; &gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; &gt; http://basho.com/
&gt; &gt;
&gt;



-- 
Sean Cribbs 
Software Engineer
Basho Technologies, Inc.
http://basho.com/
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

