---
title: "Riak CS Backup Solutions"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2018-04-25T06:31:43-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg18524"
author_name: "Anthony Valenti"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2018-04-25T06:31:43-07:00
---


We are looking to improve on our Riak CS backup strategy. We have had Riak
CS in place for a while and we are currently taking a snapshot of each
server. I'm not sure is this is the best method in terms of
recoverability, space used, timeliness or the backups, etc. What methods
has anyone else used? What is the basho recommended solution?

Thanks,


\\*Anthony Valenti\\*

-- 


\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*



 

\\*Inmar Confidentiality 
Note\\*:  This e-mail and any attachments are confidential and intended to be 
viewed and used solely by the intended recipient.  If you are not the 
intended recipient, be aware that any disclosure, dissemination, 
distribution, copying or use of this e-mail or any attachment is 
prohibited.  If you received this e-mail in error, please notify us 
immediately by returning it to the sender and delete this copy and all 
attachments from your system and destroy any printed copies.  Thank you for 
your cooperation.



 

\\*Notice of Protected Rights\\*:  The removal of any 
copyright, trademark, or proprietary legend contained in this e-mail or any 
attachment is prohibited without the express, written permission of Inmar, 
Inc.  Furthermore, the intended recipient must maintain all copyright 
notices, trademarks, and proprietary legends within this e-mail and any 
attachments in their original form and location if the e-mail or any 
attachments are reproduced, printed or distributed.

 


\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

