---
title: "Re: Command line suggestions."
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-04-11T14:20:00-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14064"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14059"
author_name: "Luke Bakken"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-04-11T14:20:00-07:00
---


Hi Guido,

Thanks a lot for the suggestions. I've passed them on internally.

--
Luke Bakken
CSE
lbak...@basho.com


On Fri, Apr 11, 2014 at 2:03 AM, Guido Medina  wrote:
&gt; Hi,
&gt;
&gt; Base on the documentation and tricks I have seen to fix/repair stuff in Riak
&gt; I would suggest the following approach:
&gt;
&gt; riak-admin [cluster]  (if cluster is specified then run the action
&gt; at every node)
&gt;
&gt; and I know most of the commands are designed like that but adding to them
&gt; for specific actions will help admin to keep things tidy up:
&gt;
&gt; riak-admin [cluster] repair-partitions - Instead of listing partitions per
&gt; node via Erlang and running it at every node.
&gt; riak-admin [cluster] repair-2i - This is already part of riak-admin without
&gt; the cluster level.
&gt; riak-admin [cluster] aae-cleanup - Stops AAE, deletes anti\\_entropy
&gt; information and starts AAE, again; if cluster is specified, run it at every
&gt; node.
&gt; riak-admin [cluster] aae-start | aae-stop - Handy when doing lots of
&gt; hand-off, should be start-aae and stop-aae from the English perspective but
&gt; then from the alphabetical perspective when documenting it can be confusing.
&gt;
&gt; I do believe the 5 actions listed should all have a local vs cluster
&gt; counterpart, don't get me wrong, Erlang is nice (I have plans to do deep
&gt; Erlang stuff integrated into Riak and RabbitMQ for our application) but from
&gt; the DevOps perspective, for scripting having each command line possible can
&gt; save lot of time and avoid mistakes, like, what node am I, etc.
&gt;
&gt; Regards,
&gt;
&gt; Guido.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

