---
title: "Re: Riak Search Pagination"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-12-21T19:06:27-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16880"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16879"
author_name: "Zeeshan Lakhani"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-12-21T19:06:27-08:00
---


Best to provide a specific sort ordering on a field if you can. 

Zeeshan Lakhani
programmer | 
software engineer at @basho | 
org. member/founder of @papers\\_we\\_love |
twitter =&gt; @zeeshanlakhani

&gt; On Dec 21, 2015, at 21:54, Garrido  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; No, we don’t provide a sort on the query, let us check and we can tell you if 
&gt; its the same score, but, in case of search returns the same score, which one 
&gt; will be the solution?
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On Dec 21, 2015, at 8:21 PM, Zeeshan Lakhani  wrote:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; The coverage plan can change per query. Are you providing a sort on the 
&gt;&gt; query? If not or if by score, does each item return the same score?
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Zeeshan Lakhani
&gt;&gt; programmer | 
&gt;&gt; software engineer at @basho | 
&gt;&gt; org. member/founder of @papers\\_we\\_love |
&gt;&gt; twitter =&gt; @zeeshanlakhani
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; On Dec 21, 2015, at 18:34, Garrido  wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Hello, 
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Recently we migrated our Riak nodes to another network, so we backup the 
&gt;&gt;&gt; data and then regenerate the ring, all is well, but there is a strange 
&gt;&gt;&gt; behaviour in a riak search, for example if we execute a query using the 
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak\\_erlang\\_client, returns the objects in the order:
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; A, B, C
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; And then if we execute again the same query the result is:
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; B, A, C, 
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; So, in other order, do you know what is causing this?, before to change our 
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak ring to another network, it was working perfectly.
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Thank you
&gt;&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

