---
title: "Re: Riak 2 Node cluster"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-08-15T06:29:17-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12044"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12043"
author_name: "Eric Redmond"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-08-15T06:29:17-07:00
---


It's hard to answer that, because both configurations are below Riak's recommended specifications. You should have at least 5 servers, and they should have at least 4GB RAM each. The minimums are for different reasons.The minimum RAM is clear: keeping things like keys resident reduces the chances of disk swap, which can destroy any database.The minimum 5 nodes is because the major reason for using Riak is high availability. If you don't have a good distribution of objects across several physical machines, you are less able to deal with any particular one going down. If you only have two servers, you really can't survive a single outage. Any less than 4 makes the odds that a value is replicated multiple times on the same machine quite high, so we recommend 5 since you can at least handle 1 downed node.EricOn Aug 15, 2013, at 7:42 AM, Nico Huysamen  wrote:
I am also interested in the answer to this. If I had to 
choose between having 2 dedicated servers, each with 32GB RAM, or 5 
virtual servers each with 2GB RAM (which just happens to be the case for
 us at the moment), my gut feel is go with the 2 dedicated servers. But 
Basho seems pretty fixed on having at least 5 nodes. Would a 2 node 
system be viable?Regards,-- Nico
 Huysamen

 
Баканов Дмитрий 
12 August 2013 
4:32 PMHello,I need to 
decide what database we will choose for our project. Certainly, we need 
only 2 physical nodes (active-standby). Riak is good for us, becase it 
is Erlang-based, as our project. But is's known that riak cluster should
 have at least five nodes. I have some problems with my cluster, same as
 in this E-mail: 
http://lists.basho.com/pipermail/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com/2012-March/007988.htmlCould
 you cleraly explain, please, is it possible to tune riak to work 
correctly with only 2 physical nodes, or we need to choose another DBMS?Dmitry\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_riak-users
 mailing listriak-users@lists.basho.comhttp://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_riak-users mailing listriak-users@lists.basho.comhttp://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

