---
title: "Re: Lost keys"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-02-28T07:59:16-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10286"
author_name: "Reid Draper"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-02-28T07:59:16-08:00
---


Hey Pavel,

Sorry to hear you're running into trouble. Here's a couple of things that will 
help us help you out:

Can you provide some more info, or code used to load Riak and Redis? What 
version of the Python client are you using? Have you tried retrieving the 
missing keys with another client, or even curl? Is it possible that 7 of the 
writes to Riak failed, but you handled the python exceptions in your 
application code? Have you modified the Riak app.config or bucket properties, 
perhaps with things like `r` and `w`? To rule out any disk errors, you can also 
provide us with your leveldb logs (feel free to send these off-list), and we'll 
take a look:

# depending on your platform, your data dir may be somewhere else
sort /var/lib/riak/leveldb/\\*/LOG &gt;all\\_LOGs
# ... then tar/zip it.

Thanks,
Reid Draper
Software Engineer, Basho


On Feb 28, 2013, at 6:27 AM, Pavel Kirienko  
wrote:

&gt; Hi everyone,
&gt; 
&gt; I have some inaccessible keys in the cluster.
&gt; My setup is the following: 3-node cluster with Riak 1.2, backend is LevelDB, 
&gt; N=3, other settings are mainly default ones. Riak Control says that there is 
&gt; nothing to worry about, and every node is accessible all the time.
&gt; 
&gt; There is a script that puts 1 000 000 keys to the initially empty Riak and 
&gt; Redis during few hours. That script uses official Python client.
&gt; The problem is: Riak lacks 7 keys that are located in Redis.
&gt; 
&gt; It seems to be not okay, so maybe there is something I need to fix? What 
&gt; additional info may become useful to isolate the problem?
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks in advance,
&gt; Pavel.
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

