---
title: "Re: Bucket type - change of properties"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-12-04T04:52:47-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15322"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15280"
author_name: "bryan hunt"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-12-04T04:52:47-08:00
---


Jason,

When you change the conflict resolution settings, you change conflict 
resolution subsequent to that point - but you already generated siblings before 
your change. 

It is not necessary to restart Riak after changing bucket-type or bucket 
properties. 

Are you still generating siblings or are you just encountering siblings which 
were generated prior to your bucket-type properties change?

Bryan 


&gt; On 1 Dec 2014, at 17:37, Jason Ryan  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; Hi all,
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; I have a simple riak 1 node install on a VM for development - I created a new 
&gt; bucket type, activated it and was using it, and then noticed I was getting 
&gt; siblings back, I'd forgotten to set allow\\_mult:false and last\\_write\\_wins:true
&gt; I did an update on the bucket-type, restarted Riak and checked the bucket 
&gt; type status and all was correct. But I'm still getting siblings.
&gt; 
&gt; Any reason why? very confused!
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks
&gt; Jason
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; This message is for the named person's use only. If you received this message 
&gt; in error, please immediately delete it and all copies and notify the sender. 
&gt; You must not, directly or indirectly, use, disclose, distribute, print, or 
&gt; copy any part of this message if you are not the intended recipient. Any 
&gt; views expressed in this message are those of the individual sender and not 
&gt; Trustev Ltd. Trustev is registered in Ireland No. 516425 and trades from 2100 
&gt; Cork Airport Business Park, Cork, Ireland.
&gt; 
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

