---
title: "Re: Load balancer"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-02-05T00:09:22-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13591"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13572"
author_name: "Simon Effenberg"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-02-05T00:09:22-08:00
---


Hi,

I think the only "save" way is to fetch a key out of a bucket. Otherwise
a fresh reinstalled node with a fresh installed riak without any data
would accept \\_writes\\_ to it even before it is in the cluster.

So I would always do the "fetch key" check. (The backend has to be up as
well for that, hasn't it? ;))

Cheers
Simon

On Sun, Feb 02, 2014 at 10:21:17AM -0800, Konstantin Kalin wrote:
&gt; Sounds interesting. Does the ping covers a case when Riak is half alive? Does 
&gt; it check status of a backend engine? 
&gt; We had a case due to a bug that bitcask was down but Riak was up. 
&gt; 
&gt; Thank you,
&gt; Konstantin. 
&gt; 
&gt; On Feb 2, 2014, at 10:16 AM, Brian Roach  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; &gt; Konstantin,
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; Doing a HTTP Ping request[1] to Riak is one approach. You could also
&gt; &gt; do a HTTP Fetch[2] for a specific bucket/key pair.
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; Another thing worth noting is that the all-new v2.0 of the Java client
&gt; &gt; we'll be releasing for Riak 2.0 is much, much better in terms of load
&gt; &gt; balancing and node management. It's built from the ground up to work
&gt; &gt; with a cluster vs. the old client which just sort of had it tacked on.
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; Operationally, for example, you'll be able to just push a properties
&gt; &gt; file out that your application can monitor and reconfigure the running
&gt; &gt; client.
&gt; &gt; [1] http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/dev/references/http/ping/
&gt; &gt; [2] http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/dev/references/http/fetch-object/
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; Thanks,
&gt; &gt; - Roach
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; On Sun, Feb 2, 2014 at 10:23 AM, Konstantin Kalin
&gt; &gt;  wrote:
&gt; &gt;&gt; Sorry jumping into the discussion. What is a best way to monitor Riak node
&gt; &gt;&gt; health? Most loadbalancer uses HTTP request to check if a node is alive.
&gt; &gt;&gt; 
&gt; &gt;&gt; Currently we use Riak Java client to load balance requests to Riak. The
&gt; &gt;&gt; issue is if a node gets removed or added all Java servers need to update
&gt; &gt;&gt; configuration to reflect the changes. It's kinda annoying for operation
&gt; &gt;&gt; team. So we started thinking about putting LB between Riak cluster and Java
&gt; &gt;&gt; clients.
&gt; &gt;&gt; 
&gt; &gt;&gt; Thank you,
&gt; &gt;&gt; Konstantin.
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

