---
title: "Re: updating the default bucket-type to support Solr indexing?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-03-24T18:51:07-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13914"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13897"
author_name: "Ryan Zezeski"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-03-24T18:51:07-07:00
---


Actually, a bucket type is not required. To associate an index with a
bucket you simply set the `search\\_index` property. Bucket types provide a
method for many buckets to inherit the same properties. Setting the
search\\_index property on the bucket type is a way to index multiple buckets
under one index without setting the property on each bucket. Otherwise, I
would suggest setting the property at the bucket level and not the type
level.

The specific problem Paul ran into is that he tried to change properties
for the default type which is a special type that cannot be altered.

-Z


On Mon, Mar 24, 2014 at 11:52 AM, Luke Bakken  wrote:

&gt; Hi Paul,
&gt;
&gt; You are correct, a new bucket type must be created for Riak 2.0 search
&gt; indexes.
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Luke Bakken
&gt; CSE
&gt; lbak...@basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Mon, Mar 24, 2014 at 2:27 AM, Paul Walk  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; I'm experimenting with the technology preview of Riak 2.0, using an
&gt;&gt; existing Ruby web application which uses the official Ruby client gem
&gt;&gt; (1.4.3).
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; My understanding is that if I have not specified particular bucket-types,
&gt;&gt; then my buckets are implicitly using a 'default' bucket type. So, in order
&gt;&gt; to try the all-new search functionality, I have tried to associate the
&gt;&gt; default bucket-type with a search index, thus:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; ./riak-admin bucket-type update default
&gt;&gt; '{"props":{"search\\_index":"my\\_index"}}'
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; which returns the error:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Error updating bucket type default: no\\_default\\_update
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Does this mean that in Riak 2.0, if one wants buckets to be indexed in
&gt;&gt; Solr, one must create a new bucket\\_type in order to associate an index and
&gt;&gt; then associate buckets with this?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Paul
&gt;&gt; -------------------------------------------
&gt;&gt; Paul Walk
&gt;&gt; http://www.paulwalk.net
&gt;&gt; -------------------------------------------
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

