---
title: "Re: [ANN] Riak 1.3 Released"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-02-21T06:46:48-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10176"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg10168"
author_name: "Alexander Sicular"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-02-21T06:46:48-08:00
---


Grats team Basho! Looks great.

How far off is a Yokozuna merge, or to put another way, how divergent is 
Yokozuna 0.3 from master?

-Alexander Sicular

@siculars

On Feb 21, 2013, at 9:24 AM, Tom Santero wrote:

&gt; Here Ye! Here Ye!
&gt; 
&gt; The Basho Engineering team is thrilled to announced that Riak 1.3 is official 
&gt; and ready for your production systems. Without further adieu:
&gt; 
&gt; Complete release notes: 
&gt; https://github.com/basho/riak/blob/1.3/RELEASE-NOTES.md
&gt; 1.3 downloads and documentation: http://docs.basho.com/riak/1.3.0/downloads/
&gt; If you've been following the commits or have read the release notes for the 
&gt; first four RCs, you know this release is well worth the wait. Big ticket 
&gt; features and fixes include Active Anti Entropy (AAE), MapReduce stability and 
&gt; speed improvements, a refacing for Riak Control, LevelDB saw another round of 
&gt; significant improvements, and much more. All told, we fixed/resolved/merged 
&gt; more than 170 issues and PRs.
&gt; 
&gt; In addition to the release notes, we've got a blog post up on the Basho Blog 
&gt; [1] with more details about 1.3. We're also doing a Riak 1.3 Webcast on March 
&gt; 7th [2] for anyone who is interested in getting a more in-depth look at the 
&gt; release.
&gt; 
&gt; 1.3 took a a little longer to get out the door than was planned, but it's the 
&gt; most-advanced, battle-tested Riak we've ever released and we're proud to ship 
&gt; it to you. Thanks for being a supportive and active community. Your 
&gt; production usage, suggestions, comments, criticisms, code contributions, and 
&gt; bug fixes made this possible.
&gt; 
&gt; Lastly, if you want to hear all about the future of Riak and hack alongside 
&gt; fellow Riak Community members for a few days, come to RICON | EAST this May 
&gt; in NYC [3].
&gt; 
&gt; Let us know if you have any questions about the release and thanks for being 
&gt; a part of Riak.
&gt; 
&gt; Now, onto 1.4...
&gt; 
&gt; The Basho Team 
&gt; twitter.com/basho
&gt; 
&gt; [1] http://basho.com/introducing-riak-1-3/ 
&gt; [2] http://info.basho.com/IntroToRiakMarch7.html 
&gt; [3] http://ricon.io/east.html
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

