---
title: "Re: Riak-CS-Control"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-07-02T05:53:36-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11370"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg11368"
author_name: "Sean Cribbs"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-07-02T05:53:36-07:00
---


On Tue, Jul 2, 2013 at 5:34 AM, Toby Corkindale &lt;
toby.corkind...@strategicdata.com.au&gt; wrote:

&gt; Riak (and Riak CS and Stanchion) all assume some level of competence at
&gt; Erlang. I found Riak was tricky to get running, but had picked up enough
&gt; knowledge of Erlang's strange syntax and foibles from working with RabbitMQ.
&gt;
&gt;
This assumption is EXACTLY why we publish our own binary packages. You
don't need to know Erlang to run Riak, and haven't for years. When you
become an advanced user, yes, it is helpful, but it is not strictly
necessary. This is especially true of CS, and I'd much rather get the
bottom of Guy's problem than quibble about how hard Riak is to use "because
Erlang".


&gt; Even then, some things weren't obvious, as you'll see from my questions to
&gt; the list a few months ago.
&gt;
&gt; I do wonder if it would be useful for Basho to publish some Chef and
&gt; Puppet manifests that do the work of setting up a small cluster?
&gt;
&gt;
Again, we have had a Chef cookbook for years, and recently others in the
community have contributed solutions for Puppet.


&gt;
&gt; However I believe the best thing would be if Riak shipped with good
&gt; defaults that get people up and running quickly.
&gt; So, for example, instead of requiring the node name to be redefined in the
&gt; vm.args, you'd just have it default to using your FQDN to construct a name.
&gt;
&gt; Stop using Erlang's inpenetrable syntax for the config files, and use
&gt; something people are familiar with, including the UNIX-style of loading
&gt; snippets out of /etc/riak.d/\\*.conf or similar. Enable Riak CS to add a
&gt; snippet that gets itself loaded, rather than requiring moderate amounts of
&gt; edits to be performed manually, including adding paths to the Erlang
&gt; library search path.
&gt;
&gt;
We are working on exactly these problems, but they are difficult to get
right. Any suggestions on config syntaxes that work well for other products
are appreciated. For now we're looking at a format that resembles sysctl.

It might also be instructive to know that part of why the Erlang syntax in
config is inscrutable is that there's a lot of it. Three years ago, we had
one section -- 'riak' -- and there were maybe 5 options. Even with the
arcane syntax, that's not intimidating.


&gt;
&gt; But.. that's just my thoughts, and I'm far from an expert. Maybe once the
&gt; core of Riak has been improved even further and bugs squashed, there'll be
&gt; time for the team to look at improving the initial setup experience. In the
&gt; meantime I've found this list to be very helpful in getting a working
&gt; system up and running.
&gt;
&gt; -Toby
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On 02/07/13 17:36, Guy Morton wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi Chris
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; The video didn't include any information that I hadn't figured out. My
&gt;&gt; problem is that I can't get it to work. I get the nice riak-cs admin page
&gt;&gt; in my browser on port 8000 but it shows no users (perhaps reasonable
&gt;&gt; because I only have succeeded in creating a single user so far - the admin
&gt;&gt; user) and the create user function fails (with the error previously
&gt;&gt; mentioned).
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I've sent you my config files, though since then I've tried what feels
&gt;&gt; like a thousand variants all to no avail. If the config is wrong enough
&gt;&gt; riak-cs won't start, and when it does I can't do a thing.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I'm sure Riak cs is a great product, once it's set up! I just don't seem
&gt;&gt; to be able to get over that hurdle.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; Guy Morton
&gt;&gt; Web Development Manager
&gt;&gt; Brüel & Kjær EMS
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\*\\*\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; From: Christopher Meiklejohn [cmeiklej...@basho.com]
&gt;&gt; Sent: Monday, 1 July 2013 4:26 PM
&gt;&gt; To: Guy Morton
&gt;&gt; Cc: riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; Subject: Re: Riak-CS-Control
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi Guy,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Here is a good video introduction to configuring Riak CS Control:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; http://basho.com/getting-\\*\\*started-with-riak-cs-control/
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Let me know if you run into any specific issues and I'm happy to help.
&gt;&gt; I'm also lurking in the #riak room on Freenode (nick: cmeiklejohn) if you
&gt;&gt; need further help (any of us should be able to!)
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; - Chris
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; Christopher Meiklejohn
&gt;&gt; Software Engineer
&gt;&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Monday, July 1, 2013 at 2:14 AM, Guy Morton wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Also, I just found this - riak-cs-control... None of the install/config
&gt;&gt;&gt; documents I saw previously mentioned it, or that it should be configured,
&gt;&gt;&gt; or how. It seems to control the web interface referred to in my last
&gt;&gt;&gt; email...
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Where is the most up-to-date info about Riak CS and how to set it up? I
&gt;&gt;&gt; am trying to set it up on Debian squeeze and I'm still floundering. I seem
&gt;&gt;&gt; very close to having it working, but not quite. It's a bit frustrating! Is
&gt;&gt;&gt; it just me, or is it complex to get working?
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt;&gt; Guy Morton
&gt;&gt;&gt; Web Development Manager
&gt;&gt;&gt; Brüel & Kjær EMS
&gt;&gt;&gt; This e-mail is confidential and may be read, copied and used only by the
&gt;&gt;&gt; intended recipient. If you have received it in error, please contact the
&gt;&gt;&gt; sender immediately by return e-mail. Please then delete the e-mail and do
&gt;&gt;&gt; not disclose its contents to any other person.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\*\\*\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com 
&gt;&gt;&gt; (mailto:riak-users@lists.\\*\\*basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; )
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/\\*\\*mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_\\*\\*lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; This e-mail is confidential and may be read, copied and used only by the
&gt;&gt; intended recipient. If you have received it in error, please contact the
&gt;&gt; sender immediately by return e-mail. Please then delete the e-mail and do
&gt;&gt; not disclose its contents to any other person.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\*\\*\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/\\*\\*mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_\\*\\*lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\*\\*\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/\\*\\*mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_\\*\\*lists.basho.com
&gt;



-- 
Sean Cribbs 
Software Engineer
Basho Technologies, Inc.
http://basho.com/
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

