---
title: "Re: Wierd hanging problem"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-03-27T09:54:07-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13938"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13937"
author_name: "Michael Dillon"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-03-27T09:54:07-07:00
---


This is what the output of top looks like on the Riak server while it is
hung:

top - 16:51:08 up 1:06, 2 users, load average: 17.60, 21.76, 21.20

Tasks: 261 total, 7 running, 253 sleeping, 0 stopped, 1 zombie

Cpu(s): 0.0%us, 12.6%sy, 0.0%ni, 62.4%id, 25.0%wa, 0.0%hi, 0.0%si,
0.0%st

Mem: 30623232k total, 30403632k used, 219600k free, 184524k buffers

Swap: 0k total, 0k used, 0k free, 17739960k cached


 PID USER PR NI VIRT RES SHR S %CPU %MEM TIME+ COMMAND


 6128 root 20 0 17476 1432 972 R 0 0.0 0:00.02 top


 1 root 20 0 24340 2308 1344 S 0 0.0 0:01.50 init


 2 root 20 0 0 0 0 S 0 0.0 0:00.01 kthreadd


 3 root 20 0 0 0 0 S 0 0.0 0:00.00 ksoftirqd/0


 4 root 20 0 0 0 0 S 0 0.0 0:01.06 kworker/0:0


On Thu, Mar 27, 2014 at 9:38 AM, Michael Dillon
wrote:

&gt; I was running Riak 2.0pre11 but now see the same problem on pre20
&gt;
&gt; I've reduced the Riak cluster to one single node, to eliminate the
&gt; inter-node communication from the issue. From another server I run a script
&gt; to do 100,000 inserts using the Python client (presumable 1.4.something).
&gt; Each insert is in a loop with 3 retries and it always specifies a server
&gt; timeout value. For this test, the HTML docs are small enough that the
&gt; 60,000 millisec default timeout value is always specified. Currently there
&gt; is no socket timeout specified on the client side.
&gt;
&gt; Part way through, one of the inserts hung. On investigation the Riak
&gt; server seemed in an OK state. I ran strace ps ax and it did not hang.
&gt; strace riak-admin status also was OK. top showed one of the riak processes
&gt; and strace -p PID showed that it was waiting in select. But then, after a
&gt; retry, the client continued to do inserts. That particular strace showed no
&gt; change so not sure whether the process was important. Ran top again and the
&gt; same process showed 80% CPU utilization.
&gt;
&gt; Then we got a full hang of Riak. The client did not retry because the
&gt; server did not timeout. It just hung and hung. Over 15 minutes as I write
&gt; this. When I ran strace ps ax on the Riak server, it hung reading
&gt; /proc/PID/cmdline where PID was the same as the one mentioned above. When I
&gt; run pstree -p (which never hangs) it shows this
&gt;
&gt; |-run\\_erl(4171)---beam.smp(4173)-+-cpu\\_sup(4473)
&gt;
&gt; 4173 is the PID that I have been talking about. Oddly enough, when I
&gt; opened a new SSH connection to this server, the strace ps ax which had been
&gt; hung on opening a /proc file, suddenly ran to completion. However, running
&gt; it again, hung again on the same line. Here are a few lines of strace ps ax
&gt;
&gt; stat("/proc/4173", {st\\_mode=S\\_IFDIR|0555, st\\_size=0, ...}) = 0
&gt;
&gt; open("/proc/4173/stat", O\\_RDONLY) = 6
&gt;
&gt; read(6, "4173 (beam.smp) S 4171 4173 4173"..., 1024) = 277
&gt;
&gt; read(6, "", 747) = 0
&gt;
&gt; close(6) = 0
&gt;
&gt; open("/proc/4173/status", O\\_RDONLY) = 6
&gt;
&gt; read(6, "Name:\\tbeam.smp\\nState:\\tS (sleepin"..., 1024) = 787
&gt;
&gt; read(6, "", 237) = 0
&gt;
&gt; close(6) = 0
&gt;
&gt; open("/proc/4173/cmdline", O\\_RDONLY) = 6
&gt;
&gt; read(6,
&gt;
&gt; Any idea what is happening?
&gt;
&gt; When Riak is running normally, is there a way to identify a PID which
&gt; would be useful to attach to strace if I see this problem developing? Or
&gt; some other way to look at status of all the different beam.smp processes
&gt; and identify where the problem is located?
&gt;
&gt; Doesn't this indicate a problem with the way that Riak implements the
&gt; server timeout? Shouldn't some supervisor be killing and restarting a child
&gt; process or subtree when this occurs?
&gt; --
&gt; Michael Dillon - Senior Software Engineer
&gt; PageFreezer.com
&gt; #200 - 311 Water Street
&gt; Vancouver, BC V6B 1B8
&gt;



-- 
Michael Dillon - Senior Software Engineer
PageFreezer.com
#200 - 311 Water Street
Vancouver, BC V6B 1B8
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

