---
title: "Re: Solr Error Handling"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2016-02-26T08:26:01-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg17087"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg17084"
author_name: "Colin Walker"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2016-02-26T08:26:01-08:00
---


Thanks for the quick response! I am using 2.1.3 and will check out that
tutorial. I can see everything in the logs but want to repair the indexes
programmatically. It sounds like Jason's solution is what I'm looking for.

Cheers,

Colin
On 26 Feb 2016 8:17 a.m., "Jason Voegele"  wrote:

&gt; On Feb 26, 2016, at 10:40 AM, Colin Walker  wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Due to bad planning on my part, Solr is having trouble indexing some of
&gt; the fields I am sending to it, specifically, I ended up with some string
&gt; fields in a numerical field. Is there a way to retrieve the records from
&gt; Riak that have thrown errors in sole?
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Hi Colin,
&gt;
&gt; Can you tell us what version of Riak you are running? In recent versions
&gt; of Riak you can get this information by expiring the AAE trees for Yokozuna
&gt; and then noting the objects that are flagged as not being indexable. See
&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/ops/advanced/aae/#AAE-and-Riak-Search for
&gt; some background info on AAE and Yokozuna, if needed.
&gt;
&gt; Another possible option is to see if the the “\\_yz\\_err” field that is
&gt; automatically created on certain error conditions might hold the
&gt; information you need. See
&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/dev/advanced/search-schema/ for info on
&gt; “\\_yz\\_err”.
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Jason Voegele
&gt; When my brain begins to reel from my literary labors, I make an occasional
&gt; cheese dip.
&gt; -- Ignatius Reilly
&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

