---
title: "Re: Raik 2.0.4 - Solr version"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-01-13T08:31:07-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15482"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15481"
author_name: "Santi Kumar"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-01-13T08:31:07-08:00
---


Sean,
As at any given point of time, there could be multiple versions of a given
entry in Riak, how does riak search manages that? Which version of the
entry is indexed with solr?

Thanks
Santi

On Tue, Jan 13, 2015 at 9:51 PM, Sean Cribbs  wrote:

&gt; The version of Solr bundled with Riak 2.0.4 is 4.7.0.
&gt;
&gt; I'm not sure what process would be required to bundle tokenizers and
&gt; analyzers, but I suspect it would be similar to how you deploy them with
&gt; stock Solr. Some tweaks may need to be made to load customizations.
&gt;
&gt; You cannot upgrade the Solr version by itself because we build a small
&gt; amount of custom code into Solr and we want to validate each upgrade before
&gt; shipping it. Since it uses some Solr-internal interfaces, we can't
&gt; guarantee that our customizations won't break on upgrade.
&gt;
&gt; The search is "planned" on the Riak side (which shards/cores to query,
&gt; etc) but executed by Distributed Solr. Search performance is good; Ryan
&gt; Zezeski benchmarked it extensively in its initial development. However, the
&gt; primary benefit of using Riak's Solr integration is the automatic
&gt; synchronization of your key-value data with the search indexes. As
&gt; key-value data gets written, handed off, or repaired, your search index is
&gt; automatically kept up-to-date via the same mechanism that keeps individual
&gt; replicas of the originals in sync.
&gt;
&gt; On Tue, Jan 13, 2015 at 8:19 AM, Bruno René Santos &lt;
&gt; bruno-r-san...@telecom.pt&gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hello,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I would like to know which solr version is bundled with riak 2.0.4 and if
&gt;&gt; we have the freedom to create our own tokenizers and analyzers and
&gt;&gt; integrate them on the solr instances. Is it possible to upgrade the Solr
&gt;&gt; instance to a newer version?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; And how the search itself occurs? We query riak and riak will query each
&gt;&gt; solr instance or we query solr and it will query all other solr instances?
&gt;&gt; Our main concern is the overall search performance.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Best Regards
&gt;&gt; Bruno
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt; Sr. Software Engineer
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; http://basho.com/
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

