---
title: "Re: Insecurities with documentations?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-11-16T18:44:43-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13001"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12994"
author_name: "Shuhao"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-11-16T18:44:43-08:00
---


I understand that packages do not need to be served over HTTPS as apt 
verifies with PGP keys. However, basho's key is not served over HTTPS, 
so there is a higher risk in that step. There could be in theory a man 
in the middle attack against the user who downloads the key and swap 
basho's key with someone else's key. The attacker can then plant bad 
code in the riak package download.


A relatively low risk, sure. Still one that makes me nervous especially 
in the current climate.


Cheers,
Shuhao

On 11/15/2013 01:27 PM, Seth Thomas wrote:

Shuhao,

Apt keys and packages typically aren't provided over HTTPS - even by the
distribution itself (see /etc/apt/sources.list). There is no transport
security but the the packages are signed which provides a generally agreed
upon adequate level of security. There is some discussion here[1] that
details why HTTPS doesn't offer much security for this process. As a quick
pass I looked at a dozen other projects that all follow the same pattern
with respect to both keys and packages.

Cheers,
Seth Thomas

[1] http://askubuntu.com/questions/146108/how-to-use-https-with-apt-get


On Wed, Nov 13, 2013 at 4:31 PM, Shuhao Wu  wrote:


Hi,

I just came across the instructions to install Riak again and I think
there's some insecurities with the instructions.

On this page[1], there is a line that suggests we should do this:

 curl http://apt.basho.com/gpg/basho.apt.key | sudo apt-key add -

This is not https and should be. Additionally, an https version of
apt.basho.com does not seem to be available.

[1]:
http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/ops/building/installing/debian-ubuntu/

Cheers,
Shuhao

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com





\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

