---
title: "Re: Late to the party but still wish to compile a working Riak"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2017-07-17T22:45:56-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg18387"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg18386"
author_name: "David Bloom"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2017-07-17T22:45:56-07:00
---


Thanks Mark! I got most of the way through your talk in 2015 and will
finish the video tomorrow, pretty heady stuff but you make it digestible.
I'm still getting used to erlang syntax, that's why my interest in LFE as
its syntax is less cognitive load for me.

Udon and your talk are definitely going to help me jump-start into
distributed programming. Thanks for all the info and the updated code. I
look forward to building something useful with it. Maybe I'll get good
enough eventually to make some contributions to update the code to the
latest erlang release. Cheers.

David


On Jul 17, 2017 11:50 PM, "Mark Allen"  wrote:

Just to follow up on this, I tried to work out OTP 20 support tonight but
it looks like riak\\_ensemble is going to need some serious TLC to get OTP 20
to compile on it due to its use of deprecated gen\\_fsm calls in various
parts of the application.

So I'm going to omit support for OTP 20 for now and work on OTP 18 and 19
support tomorrow for udon. That ought to be quite a bit more straight
forward. I think it would mostly entail adding the proper relx
configuration.

Mark


On Monday, July 17, 2017, 12:41:04 PM CDT, Mark Allen 
wrote:


OK, I see that the project doesn't seem to support OTP 18, 19 or 20. I'll
see if I can bump the deps and get it working using Heinz's fork tonight US
time.
On Monday, July 17, 2017, 12:38:07 PM CDT, Mark Allen 
wrote:


You might want to consider starting with udon, my "learn riak core"
application I wrote a couple years ago:

http://basho.com/posts/technical/understanding-riak\\_core-building-handoff/

https://speakerdeck.com/mrallen1/building-distributed-
applications-with-riak-core

https://github.com/mrallen1/udon

Happy to answer questions here, via twitter @bytemeorg, or github issues,
or in irc on #riak (might be slow - I don't look at riak-user constantly.)

Mark


On Monday, July 17, 2017, 11:16:01 AM CDT, David Bloom 
wrote:


Hello Riak list! After watching many videos about Erlang and LFE in
particular I think I get it and now understand the many benefits of the
BEAM and thought that Riak would make an excellent tool to build
applications with.

While getting excited I learned of Basho's current limbo status but still
interested in learning Riak as it has already been adopted enough that it
seems that Riak (or it's future open-source name whatever) is here to stay.

How can I compile a working Riak? Is it daft of me to learn Erlang/LFE to
get future work supporting existing Riak installations? Though very new to
the Erlang ecosystem, I've managed to use Kerl to install different
versions of R16 and R17, even used it to install Basho's patched R16 but
nothing works.

Would it be better to try using the existing Riak containers on Docker
Hub? Any thoughts or tips for a Lisper looking to work with and learn more
Erlang? My resume available upon request. Thanks in advance for your help.

-David Bloom
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

