---
title: "Re: Question about counters"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-06-30T00:19:23-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14414"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14411"
author_name: "Alex De la rosa"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-06-30T00:19:23-07:00
---


A "set" may not be a good solution if you have many counters getting
updated at once and you should do the sorting (if possible) before saving
the "set" back into RIAK.

The goal scoring was a very simple/small example... but imagine you want to
do Twitter's Trending Topics counting which twits has more comments (if we
have a "comments" counter)... will be too massive to save it all in a "set".

I guess that MapReduce will be the way in this case.

Cheers,
Alex


On Mon, Jun 30, 2014 at 12:14 AM, Alexander Sicular 
wrote:

&gt; Not that I know of. I believe keys are independent in this regard. Basho
&gt; is introducing sets in riak 2.0 but I don't think they will bee sorted sets
&gt; like in redis.
&gt;
&gt; -Alexander
&gt;
&gt; @siculars
&gt; http://siculars.posthaven.com
&gt;
&gt; Sent from my iRotaryPhone
&gt;
&gt; On Jun 29, 2014, at 15:54, Alex De la rosa 
&gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Hi there,
&gt;
&gt; I have a question about something that just came up to my mind... can we
&gt; determine which counter is higher in a bucket? For example:
&gt;
&gt; # Taking the FIFA World Cup as example:
&gt;
&gt; bucket = client.bucket\\_type('counter\\_bucket').bucket('goals')
&gt; counter = bucket.new('Neymar')
&gt; counter.increment(4)
&gt; counter = bucket.new('Messi')
&gt; counter.increment(4)
&gt; counter = bucket.new('JamesRodriguez')
&gt; counter.increment(5)
&gt;
&gt; Is there any way (without using MapReduce) to get the top scorer of the
&gt; World Cup? or a descendent ordered list of the keys by its value?
&gt;
&gt; Cheers,
&gt; Alex
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

