---
title: "Re: Split index with Riak 2.0 git (jan 15th) on a single dev node	cluster"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-04-01T07:57:48-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13962"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13443"
author_name: "John O'Brien"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-04-01T07:57:48-07:00
---


Ryan,

Apologies on the long post delay. We pushed from pre11 to pre20, and
figured out the issue. It looks like we had a mismatch between the
n-val on the bucket, vs the n-val on the seach\\_index... Pre20 throws
an error telling us to stop being stupid.

It does however allow us to change the n-val after linking the index
to the bucket, so I would wager a guess that this might induce the
same issue we saw before. We will test a bit to confirm when we get
the chance, but I welcome sage advice as to the logic behind this.

J

On Wed, Jan 22, 2014 at 12:10 AM, Ryan Zezeski  wrote:
&gt; John,
&gt;
&gt; 1. What did you use to load the data? Do you have a script?
&gt;
&gt; 2. What content-type is the data?
&gt;
&gt; 3. Do you see any errors in the log directory? Check error.log and solr.log.
&gt;
&gt; 4. Do you get any results for the query q=\\_yz\\_err:1
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; 6. What version of Riak are you using?
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; -Z
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Tue, Jan 21, 2014 at 1:46 PM, John O'Brien  wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Issue:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; When running searchs against a single dev node cluster, pre-populated
&gt;&gt; with 1000 keys, bitcask backend, search=on and a /search/svan?q=\\*
&gt;&gt; search URI, the solr response is coming back with three different
&gt;&gt; resultsets, 330 values, the other 354, the other 345. The range of
&gt;&gt; keys 0-1000 are split in no obvious pattern between the 3 result
&gt;&gt; shards..
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Anyone have any clue as to what I may have messed up in the config? I
&gt;&gt; assume this is not expected behaviour.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Other than that, it works great. ;)
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Cheers,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; John
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

