---
title: "Re: cuttlefish"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-10-29T10:09:50-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16720"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16719"
author_name: "Michael Martin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-10-29T10:09:50-07:00
---


It's not open source yet. It needs quite a bit more testing before I'm 
comfortable releasing it into

the wild, but that will happen soon, I hope.


On 10/29/2015 11:42 AM, Luke Bakken wrote:

Hi Michael,

Please use "Reply All" so that riak-users is included in this discussion.

I am assuming that the important part, for Riak, is here:

https://github.com/basho/riak/blob/develop/rel/vars.config#L55-L59

Is your application open-source? I would be interested in getting relx
support into cuttlefish.

https://github.com/basho/cuttlefish/wiki/Cuttlefish-for-non-node\\_package-users

--
Luke Bakken
Engineer
lbak...@basho.com


On Thu, Oct 29, 2015 at 9:32 AM, Michael Martin  wrote:

Hi Luke,

I understand now how to create a new .conf file. But, I still don't see how
to make my application aware of
that .conf file and properly parse it into an app.config. Starting the
cuttlefish application in my application
has no effect.

Any ideas?

Thanks,
Michael



On 10/29/2015 10:18 AM, Luke Bakken wrote:

Hi Michael,

I'm figuring this out as I go as well. I searched for "riak.conf"
(https://github.com/basho/riak/search?q=riak.conf) and got a hit here:

https://github.com/basho/riak/blob/develop/rel/rebar.config

I suspect this configuration is what causes "riak.conf" to be
generated at build time, via this code:


https://github.com/basho/cuttlefish/blob/develop/src/cuttlefish\\_rebar\\_plugin.erl

--
Luke Bakken
Engineer
lbak...@basho.com


On Thu, Oct 29, 2015 at 8:12 AM, Michael Martin 
wrote:

Hi Luke,

Thanks for the quick reply.

I've been throught the "Cuttlefish-for-Erlang-Developers" doc a couple of
times now.
I must be missing something.

The main README states:

"When we build Riak, Cuttlefish generates a riak.conf file that contains
the
default shipping configuration of Riak. When a script to start Riak is
run,
a Cuttlefish escript is spun up, reads the riak.conf file and combines
that
with the Schema to generate an app.config."

But I see no reference to how I make Cuttlefish generate my script, nor
where to find the Cuttlefish escript that reads
the .conf file and generates the app.config. I don't see this information
in
the Wiki, either.

Thanks,
Michael



\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

