---
title: "Re: Riak in Node + Protobuf"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-12-03T11:51:58-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13143"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13140"
author_name: "Alain Rodriguez"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-12-03T11:51:58-08:00
---


So the cluster is operational in production and we are accessing it
via the http interface. The problem comes when I access it via
protobuf. \\*some\\* clients connect and run queries just fine, while
others fail to connect with a connection timeout.

This is the library I am using directly, which is the underlying
library used by the http://riak-js.org/ library:
https://github.com/nlf/riakpbc

Below is the code I am using to connect to Riak. From what I have seen
in the library code, the client automatically connects before sending
a request if it isn't already connected.

var RiakDataStore = function (config) {
 var self = this;

 DataStore.call(self, Utils.extend(defaultConfig, config));

 var riakConfig = self.config.riak;

 self.logger.info("Connecting to riak: host = %s, port = %s",
riakConfig.host, riakConfig.port);

 self.riakClient = RiakPBC.createClient({
 host: riakConfig.host,
 port: riakConfig.port
 });
};
Util.inherits(RiakDataStore, DataStore);

RiakDataStore.prototype.storeTile = function (tile, callback) {
 var self = this;

 var bucketName = RiakDataStore.getBucketNameForTile(tile);
 var keyName = tile.getId();

 return self.riakClient.put({
 bucket: bucketName,
 key: keyName,
 content: {
 value: JSON.stringify(tile),
 content\\_type: 'application/json'
 }
 }, function (err, reply) {
 return callback(err);
 });
};

RiakDataStore.prototype.loadTile = function (tileQuery, callback) {
 var self = this;

 var bucketName = RiakDataStore.getBucketNameForTileQuery(tileQuery);
 var keyName = tileQuery.getId();

 self.riakClient.get({
 bucket: bucketName,
 key: keyName
 }, function (err, reply) {
 if (err) {
 return callback(err, undefined);
 } else if (Array.isArray(reply.content) && reply.content.length) {
 if (reply.content.length &gt; 1) {
 self.logger.warn("Multiple documents returned for
tile: %s (%d versions)", tileQuery.getId(), reply.content.length);
 }

 var tile;

 try {
 tile = DataTile.fromJSON(JSON.parse(reply.content[0].value));
 } catch (ex) {
 return callback(ex, undefined);
 }

 return callback(undefined, tile);
 } else {
 return callback(undefined, null);
 }
 });
};

Thanks,

Alain

On Tue, Dec 3, 2013 at 7:02 AM, Sean Cribbs  wrote:
&gt; First, make sure Riak is working properly, `riak-admin test` will do a
&gt; get/put cycle to make sure your cluster is ok.
&gt;
&gt; Second, double-check what the protobuffs port is in your config file,
&gt; usually 8087.
&gt;
&gt; The pb\\_backlog will only be a problem when you are rapidly opening
&gt; connections to the server, although we are bumping up the default to 128 for
&gt; Riak 2.0.
&gt;
&gt; Other than those initial guesses, this might be a problem in the library.
&gt; Can you post the code you are using?
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Tue, Dec 3, 2013 at 12:04 AM, Alain Rodriguez  wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi all,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I am trying to connect to Riak using the Node.js library
&gt;&gt; https://github.com/nlf/riakpbc, however many of my connections are
&gt;&gt; failing with the error "Connection timeout". Is there a limit on the
&gt;&gt; number of connections allowed over PB? I looked into tuning pb\\_backlog
&gt;&gt; but it didn't yield any results.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; As a comparison, I am able to open many concurrent connections via the
&gt;&gt; HTTP interface on the same riak cluster.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Is there another protobuf specific configuration that I might be missing?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Cheers,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Alain
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt; Software Engineer
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; http://basho.com/

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

