---
title: "RE: Multiple named counters per key"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-11-09T15:41:16-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12928"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12927"
author_name: "Mark A. Basil, Jr."
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-11-09T15:41:16-08:00
---


Thanks Sam. Tight timescale is indeed my biggest problem. I spent a bit too 
much time being excited about Riak and temporarily neglected the needs of the 
business (i.e. cheap and fast). Lesson learned. At this point there are many 
variables in the immediate future, so a quick and dirty "launch" will get me 
closer to talking long-term solutions.

-m

-----Original Message-----
From: Sam Elliott [mailto:sam.elli...@basho.com] 
Sent: Saturday, November 09, 2013 4:47 PM
To: Mark A. Basil, Jr.
Cc: Dave Rusek; riak-users@lists.basho.com
Subject: Re: Multiple named counters per key

Sorry to rain on your parade, Riak's 1.4 Counters don't support 2i or custom 
metadata (including links). If you can reconstruct the keys easily, do that, 
but doing a keylist is a very bad idea, and 2i/linkwalking can't help you with 
counters.

If you're starting to develop now, the most sensible thing may be to base your 
work on the 2.0 tech preview, which introduces Maps, and then have a key 
contain a Map full of counters. The only caveats to this are a) Some are not 
yet ready (and data types don't yet have a http endpoint) and b) it's a tech 
preview, you'll have to wait for the official release before you deploy to 
production. If you have a very tight timescale, this is probably not a sensible 
idea.

Riak 2.0's data types were made expressly so that you could start to compose 
many data types in the same key, of course, we wish they were ready, but we 
want to make sure they work perfectly and they're easy to use first.

Sam
-- 
Sam Elliott
Engineer
sam.elli...@basho.com (mailto:sam.elli...@basho.com)
--


On Friday, 8 November 2013 at 3:28PM, Mark A. Basil, Jr. wrote:

&gt; Yes that would certainly work. My experience up until recently has been 
&gt; limited to RDBMS, so I’m still trying to wrap my head around ideas of 
&gt; relating data when done this way. 
&gt; 
&gt; How does one choose the “best” of 2i vs. links vs. deterministic key names? 
&gt; What makes this hard to adopt is that there isn’t much background info on 
&gt; use-case, and the impact that a particular method had on that case. I don’t 
&gt; know what resource to turn to that is a starting point for “when you need to 
&gt; do this, then these are the options and here are the pros/cons”.
&gt; 
&gt; I just don’t have time to watch 96 Vimeo videos that are all 30-60 minutes 
&gt; long.
&gt; 
&gt; Counters seem like a good idea, but in order to use one we must solve another 
&gt; problem. My mindset is use the built-in counter because that’s what they are 
&gt; meant to do; however, when that brings about a more complex problem of 
&gt; determining how to relate the data, it just doesn’t make sense.
&gt; 
&gt; Again, I’m very new to “NoSQL”. So if I’m missing some fundamental thing that 
&gt; should be obvious please forgive me. 
&gt; 
&gt; -m
&gt; 
&gt; From: Dave Rusek [mailto:dru...@basho.com] 
&gt; Sent: Friday, November 08, 2013 2:53 PM
&gt; To: Mark A. Basil, Jr.; riak-users@lists.basho.com 
&gt; (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
&gt; Subject: Re: Multiple named counters per key
&gt; 
&gt; Could you accomplish this with a bucket which is a map of counters? The 
&gt; counter name would be the map key.
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; -- 
&gt; Dave Rusek
&gt; Sent with Airmail (http://airmailapp.com/tracking)
&gt; 
&gt; On November 8, 2013 at 12:50:23 PM, Mark A. Basil, Jr. (m...@badarmadillo.com 
&gt; (mailto://m...@badarmadillo.com)) wrote:
&gt; &gt; Just a thought. It would be handy if one could add many named counters per 
&gt; &gt; buket/key to more closely handle a shopping cart scenario. Otherwise, 
&gt; &gt; unless I’m mistaken, one would have to have a bucket that would be the 
&gt; &gt; “cart” and keys which are the “items”. That doesn’t make a lot of sense to 
&gt; &gt; me.
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_ 
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list 
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com) 
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 





\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

