---
title: "Re: Riak 2.1.3 - Multiple indexes created by Solr for the same Riak	object"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2016-09-14T02:14:46-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg17642"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg17639"
author_name: "Weixi Yen"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2016-09-14T02:14:46-07:00
---


&gt; So yes, it is possible to find several additional objects in Solr for
each KV object. When querying Solr through Riak/Yokozuna, the internal
queries are structured in a way that only one replica is returned. Quering
Solr nodes directly will typically lack these filters and may return more
than one copy of an object.

Got it, that's what's happening.

&gt; You can perform a GET/PUT cycle through Riak KV on an object.

Perfect, will do this to fix when I notice the dupes coming in, thanks!

On Tue, Sep 13, 2016 at 9:21 AM, Weixi Yen  wrote:

&gt; &gt; So yes, it is possible to find several additional objects in Solr for
&gt; each KV object. When querying Solr through Riak/Yokozuna, the internal
&gt; queries are structured in a way that only one replica is returned. Quering
&gt; Solr nodes directly will typically lack these filters and may return more
&gt; than one copy of an object.
&gt;
&gt; Got it, that's what's happening.
&gt;
&gt; &gt; You can perform a GET/PUT cycle through Riak KV on an object.
&gt;
&gt; Perfect, will do this to fix when I notice the dupes coming in, thanks!
&gt;
&gt; On Tue, Sep 13, 2016 at 4:35 AM, Magnus Kessler 
&gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; On 11 September 2016 at 02:27, Weixi Yen  wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Sort of a unique case, my app was under heavy stress and one of my riak
&gt;&gt;&gt; nodes got backed up (other 4 nodes were fine).
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; I think this caused Riak.update to create an extra index in Solr for the
&gt;&gt;&gt; same object when users began running .update on that object.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi Weixi,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Can you please confirm what you mean by "extra index"? Do you mean that
&gt;&gt; an object was indexed more than once and gets counted / returned by Solr
&gt;&gt; queries? If that's the case, can you please let me know how you query Solr?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; I have basically 2 questions:
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; 1) Is what I'm describing something that is possible?
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Riak/Yokozuna indexes each replica of a Riak object into Solr. With the
&gt;&gt; default n\\_val of 3, there will be 3 copies of any given object indexed in
&gt;&gt; Solr. Depending on the version of Riak you are using, it's also possible
&gt;&gt; that siblings of Riak objects get indexed independently. So yes, it is
&gt;&gt; possible to find several additional objects in Solr for each KV object.
&gt;&gt; When querying Solr through Riak/Yokozuna, the internal queries are
&gt;&gt; structured in a way that only one replica is returned. Quering Solr nodes
&gt;&gt; directly will typically lack these filters and may return more than one
&gt;&gt; copy of an object.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; 2) Is there a way to tell Solr to re-index one single item and get rid
&gt;&gt;&gt; of all other indexes of that item?
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; You can perform a GET/PUT cycle through Riak KV on an object. This will
&gt;&gt; result in n\\_val copies of the objects across the Solr instances, that
&gt;&gt; replace previous versions. It is not possible to have just 1 copy, unless
&gt;&gt; the n\\_val for the object is exactly 1. AFAIK, there have been some fixes to
&gt;&gt; Yokozuna in 2.0.7 and the upcoming 2.2 release that deal better with
&gt;&gt; indexed siblings. Discrepancies between KV objects and their Solr
&gt;&gt; counterparts should be detected and resolved by active anti-entropy (AAE).
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Considering RiakTS to resolve these issues long term, but have to stick
&gt;&gt;&gt; with Solr for at least the next 3 months, would appreciate any insight into
&gt;&gt;&gt; how to solve this duplicate index problem.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Weixi
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Regards,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Magnus
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; Magnus Kessler
&gt;&gt; Client Services Engineer
&gt;&gt; Basho Technologies Limited
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Registered Office - 8 Lincoln’s Inn Fields London WC2A 3BP Reg 07970431
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

