---
title: "RE: Advice on commit hooks"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-11-08T00:38:47-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12891"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12890"
author_name: "Mark A. Basil, Jr."
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-11-08T00:38:47-08:00
---


OK - now I just feel silly. I answered the first of my own questions.

 

Though the demo only involves how "people" relate to one another, it was
obvious that cross-bucket links are possible simply by the method to query
against them.

 

I suppose to know if Links are an appropriate method, one would need to know
that the Links would be used often to display these relationships to the
user. In one of the video sessions, it was mentioned that user-session
queries using MapReduce were considered a "bug". Is Link traversal
optimized in any manner that would make it a better candidate for this type
of model?

 

-m

 

From: riak-users [mailto:riak-users-boun...@lists.basho.com] On Behalf Of
Mark A. Basil, Jr.
Sent: Friday, November 08, 2013 1:59 AM
To: riak-users@lists.basho.com
Subject: Advice on commit hooks

 

Good morning.

 

First I would like to introduce myself as the FNG. Hi there.

 

In attempting to solve a problem with a particular relational database, I
realized that the solution was simply to avoid the problem. Long story
short, research led me to Riak, and I'm quite glad that it did. I have a
question regarding Links and Link Traversal. Can Links span buckets? 

 

Is the following possible? If so, are cross-bucket links the best method
for these relationships?

 

/riak/dishes/saucer\\_a -- with
; "member\\_of"

/riak/dishes/dish\\_a -- with
; "member\\_of"

/riak/dishes/bowl\\_a -- with
; "member\\_of"

 

/riak/combos/dish\\_set\\_a -- with
;
"member\\_of"

/riak/combos/place\\_setting\\_a -- with
; "includes"

 

If the above is both possible and appropriate -- how might one implement a
commit hook that, when a link is added to an item that defines an "includes"
relationship, the "member\\_of" relationship is automatically added?

 

-m

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

