---
title: "Re: Riak Search Pagination"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-12-21T19:35:56-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16881"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16880"
author_name: "Jorge Garrido"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-12-21T19:35:56-08:00
---


Great!! But can you explain why this issue?

On Monday, December 21, 2015, Zeeshan Lakhani  wrote:

&gt; Best to provide a specific sort ordering on a field if you can.
&gt;
&gt; Zeeshan Lakhani
&gt; programmer |
&gt; software engineer at @basho |
&gt; org. member/founder of @papers\\_we\\_love |
&gt; twitter =&gt; @zeeshanlakhani
&gt;
&gt; &gt; On Dec 21, 2015, at 21:54, Garrido &gt;
&gt; wrote:
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; No, we don’t provide a sort on the query, let us check and we can tell
&gt; you if its the same score, but, in case of search returns the same score,
&gt; which one will be the solution?
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; On Dec 21, 2015, at 8:21 PM, Zeeshan Lakhani  &gt; wrote:
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; The coverage plan can change per query. Are you providing a sort on the
&gt; query? If not or if by score, does each item return the same score?
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; Zeeshan Lakhani
&gt; &gt;&gt; programmer |
&gt; &gt;&gt; software engineer at @basho |
&gt; &gt;&gt; org. member/founder of @papers\\_we\\_love |
&gt; &gt;&gt; twitter =&gt; @zeeshanlakhani
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; On Dec 21, 2015, at 18:34, Garrido &gt;
&gt; wrote:
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; Hello,
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; Recently we migrated our Riak nodes to another network, so we backup
&gt; the data and then regenerate the ring, all is well, but there is a strange
&gt; behaviour in a riak search, for example if we execute a query using the
&gt; riak\\_erlang\\_client, returns the objects in the order:
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; A, B, C
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; And then if we execute again the same query the result is:
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; B, A, C,
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; So, in other order, do you know what is causing this?, before to
&gt; change our riak ring to another network, it was working perfectly.
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; Thank you
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com 
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

