---
title: "Re: Riak CS Backup Solutions"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2018-04-25T06:50:51-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg18525"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg18524"
author_name: "Bryan Hunt"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2018-04-25T06:50:51-07:00
---


Anthony, 

Your snapshot solution is not bad if you just want a daily version you can roll 
back to for disaster recovery.

I presume : 

1. You’re running on VM’s 
2. You stop the world at the time of the snapshot

Riak CS makes multiple (3 by default) copies of your data and generally 
speaking, stores them onto multiple physical servers with the following caveats 
: 

1. Verify that the partitions are evenly spread across the machines, sometimes 
old Riak puts two copies of the data on a single physical machine.
2. Always run a cluster of 5 or more machines.
3. Take care that you’re not storing all your data on the same physical device 
(SAN server in the basement anyone?) ).

I suppose the reason you want backups is to mitigate the situation where an 
adversary gets inside your servers and begins silently deleting or tampering 
with data, in which case, snapshots are prudent. 

If you wanted to do something more sophisticated, you could try : 

1. Re-building your cluster using the soon to be released Riak 2.2.5.
2. Replicate off site to a physically remote location
3. More regularly perform snapshots there (as they won’t impact latencies on 
your main Riak CS cluster)

Does that make sense? Any questions? 

Bryan 




&gt; On 25 Apr 2018, at 14:30, Anthony Valenti  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; We are looking to improve on our Riak CS backup strategy. We have had Riak 
&gt; CS in place for a while and we are currently taking a snapshot of each 
&gt; server. I'm not sure is this is the best method in terms of recoverability, 
&gt; space used, timeliness or the backups, etc. What methods has anyone else 
&gt; used? What is the basho recommended solution?
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; Anthony Valenti
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; Inmar Confidentiality Note: This e-mail and any attachments are confidential 
&gt; and intended to be viewed and used solely by the intended recipient. If you 
&gt; are not the intended recipient, be aware that any disclosure, dissemination, 
&gt; distribution, copying or use of this e-mail or any attachment is prohibited. 
&gt; If you received this e-mail in error, please notify us immediately by 
&gt; returning it to the sender and delete this copy and all attachments from your 
&gt; system and destroy any printed copies. Thank you for your cooperation.
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; Notice of Protected Rights: The removal of any copyright, trademark, or 
&gt; proprietary legend contained in this e-mail or any attachment is prohibited 
&gt; without the express, written permission of Inmar, Inc. Furthermore, the 
&gt; intended recipient must maintain all copyright notices, trademarks, and 
&gt; proprietary legends within this e-mail and any attachments in their original 
&gt; form and location if the e-mail or any attachments are reproduced, printed or 
&gt; distributed.
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*
&gt; 
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

