---
title: "Re: Is it possible to start with One node and increase later"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-11-14T10:06:05-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15171"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15170"
author_name: "Santi Kumar"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-11-14T10:06:05-08:00
---


Thanks Luke. I don't want to increase the n\\_val. All I'm worried is with
the default value of 3, with one node would there be any reliability
issues. Because there are no other nodes to replicate but according to the
configuration 2 other nodes might be expected.

Can we continue with single node and default configuration without adding
new nodes?

Thanks
Santi
On Nov 14, 2014 10:48 PM, "Luke Bakken"  wrote:

&gt; Hi Santi,
&gt;
&gt; The default n\\_val is actually 3. If you start with one node and add
&gt; nodes there will be no issue.
&gt;
&gt; You can increase the n\\_val but requests for objects may return
&gt; not\\_found until read repair or AAE fixes the replicas.
&gt; --
&gt; Luke Bakken
&gt; Engineer / CSE
&gt; lbak...@basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Thu, Nov 13, 2014 at 11:49 AM, Santi Kumar  wrote:
&gt; &gt; Hi,
&gt; &gt; I'm new to the Riak. I know the default value of n\\_val is 2, but is it
&gt; &gt; possible to start with one node, no replication initially and then start
&gt; &gt; adding the nodes and increase the replication factor.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; What happens if I run only a single node without changing the default
&gt; &gt; values? Does it cause any errors as there is no other nodes in the
&gt; cluster?
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Apologize for naive question though.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Thanks
&gt; &gt; Santi
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

