---
title: "Re: Not able to store data in original riak bucket"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-10-14T10:11:58-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15039"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15038"
author_name: "ayush mishra"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-10-14T10:11:58-07:00
---


Ohhh This is the reason. Thanks Luke for finding root cause. I will take
care of this in future. Since I am new to Riak, so I am not aware of this.

Regards,
Ayush

On Tue, Oct 14, 2014 at 10:23 PM, Luke Bakken  wrote:

&gt; Hi Ayush,
&gt;
&gt; Just so I'm clear and can reproduce this:
&gt;
&gt; \\* You were using Riak 1.4 and had Riak Search enabled.
&gt; \\* You put some data into this environment.
&gt; \\* You then upgraded to 2.0.1 and saw the search hook being added to
&gt; buckets.
&gt;
&gt; Thanks!
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Luke Bakken
&gt; Engineer / CSE
&gt; lbak...@basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Tue, Oct 14, 2014 at 9:45 AM, ayush mishra 
&gt; wrote:
&gt; &gt; Hi Luke,
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; You are right. This is just a workaround not a fix. I had some urgency
&gt; in my
&gt; &gt; project. That's why I followed this approach. I updated it from previous
&gt; &gt; version to 2.0.1.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Regards,
&gt; &gt; Ayush
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; On Tue, Oct 14, 2014 at 8:05 PM, Luke Bakken  wrote:
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; Hi Ayush,
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; By making that change, you are enabling Riak Search 1.0, which I
&gt; &gt;&gt; assume you don't want to do. This is a "workaround" but not a fix.
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; \\* Did you upgrade from a previous version of Riak to 2.0.1?
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; \\* What client library and version of that library are you using?
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; \\* Can you run this command and send me the output? tar czf
&gt; &gt;&gt; /tmp/riak-config-$(hostname).tgz /var/lib/riak/generated.configs
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; Thanks!
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; --
&gt; &gt;&gt; Luke Bakken
&gt; &gt;&gt; Engineer / CSE
&gt; &gt;&gt; lbak...@basho.com
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; On Tue, Oct 14, 2014 at 12:52 AM, ayush mishra
&gt; &gt;&gt;  wrote:
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt; http://www.dzone.com/links/r/solution\\_for\\_riak\\_500\\_internal\\_server\\_error.html
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

