---
title: "Re: Java client via Scala - StringBinIndex.Name not accessible"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-12-15T21:03:48-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16869"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16868"
author_name: "Toby Corkindale"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-12-15T21:03:48-08:00
---


Hi,
Reading further, it seems it's simply not possible to get Scala to work
with the static protected inner classes of the Index types in the Java
client :(

In the Java client, is there any other way to instantiate indexes? I
suspect not, but figure I could ask just in case.

Cheers
Toby

On Wed, 16 Dec 2015 at 15:34 Toby Corkindale  wrote:

&gt; Hi Luke,
&gt; Thanks for the quick response.. That link does sound like it's describing
&gt; the problem.
&gt; I'll see if I can figure out a way to get around it :(
&gt; The rest of the code works lovely with thin wrappers around the java
&gt; client, and it's only now in the project that I'm trying to get the indexes
&gt; added :(
&gt;
&gt; Toby
&gt;
&gt; On Wed, 16 Dec 2015 at 15:22 Luke Bakken  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi Toby,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I think you're running into something similar to this:
&gt;&gt; http://www.scala-lang.org/old/node/1381.html
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; which links to this: https://issues.scala-lang.org/browse/SI-1806
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Not being familar with Java / Scala interop I hope that the discussion
&gt;&gt; and further links there can help you out.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; Luke Bakken
&gt;&gt; Engineer
&gt;&gt; lbak...@basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Tue, Dec 15, 2015 at 8:11 PM, Toby Corkindale  wrote:
&gt;&gt; &gt; Hi,
&gt;&gt; &gt; I'm having a lot of trouble getting a particular part of the Riak java
&gt;&gt; &gt; client to work when called from Scala.
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; There's a Java class which I'm not allowed to instantiate directly, but
&gt;&gt; must
&gt;&gt; &gt; instead call an embedded subclass's static constructor method.
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; ie.
&gt;&gt; &gt; import com.basho.riak.client.core.query.indexes.StringBinIndex
&gt;&gt; &gt; val idx = new StringBinIndex.Name("colours")
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; However, in Scala, I get this error reported:
&gt;&gt; &gt; Constructor Name in class Name cannot be accessed in class [myclass]
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; Docs for the class:
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; http://basho.github.io/riak-java-client/2.0.1/index.html?com/basho/riak/client/core/query/indexes/StringBinIndex.html
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; I don't suppose anyone can see what I'm doing wrong, or suggest how to
&gt;&gt; make
&gt;&gt; &gt; this work from Scala?
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; Cheers,
&gt;&gt; &gt; Toby
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

