---
title: "Randomizing Bitcask merges"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-03-13T10:51:00-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13799"
author_name: "Matthew MacClary"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-03-13T10:51:00-07:00
---


I thought I would share part of one of our post install scripts with the
community to get feedback. Our goal is to avoid big merges that affect the
whole cluster at once. We set the merge trigger and merge threshold to the
same value which should result in more frequent but smaller scoped merges.
The trigger for each riak node is set randomly between 50% and 85% for dead
bytes and "fragmentation". We also chose to use largish values for the
threshold because that dictates how much of our disk bandwidth we will
"waste", if you merge after 10% dead bytes - then your are "wasting" your
time copying 90% good bytes and only recovering 10% of the slab's disk
space.

What we were seeing in testing is that soon after the cluster was
installed, all the nodes were doing heavy merges at the same time. This
created a very noticeable bad performance window. Over time the merges
would start to spread out a little bit due to random factors. I should also
point out that our work mix is basically 1:1:1:0 for
write:read:delete:update so merging happens a lot.

We decided to make the merges smaller and start the cluster out with
randomized merges. If you read with a consistency value of 1, then there is
a good chance that if one replica is merging, then another replica vnode
would not be part of a merge and could reply with normal latency.

Let me know what you think! Is any of this reasoning faulty?

 # values used to compute values for app.config file
 NUMERATOR=2147483648 # matches max\\_file\\_size
 DENOMINATOR=100

 THRESH=`shuf -i 50-85 -n 1`
 #BYTES=$(expr $THRESH \\\\* 2147483648 / 100 )
 BYTES=$(expr $THRESH \\\\* $NUMERATOR / $DENOMINATOR )

 sed -ri "s/(.\\*dead\\_bytes\\_merge\\_trigger,)\\d\\*.\\*$/\\1${BYTES}},/"
${RIAK\\_CONFIG\\_STAGING}/app.config
 sed -ri "s/(.\\*dead\\_bytes\\_threshold,)\\d\\*.\\*$/\\1${BYTES}},/"
${RIAK\\_CONFIG\\_STAGING}/app.config

 sed -ri "s/(.\\*frag\\_merge\\_trigger,)\\d\\*.\\*$/\\1${THRESH}},/"
${RIAK\\_CONFIG\\_STAGING}/app.config
 sed -ri "s/(.\\*frag\\_threshold,)\\d\\*.\\*$/\\1${THRESH}},/"
${RIAK\\_CONFIG\\_STAGING}/app.config


-Matt
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

