---
title: "Re: Two quick questions about X-RIak-Meta-* headers...."
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-12-08T09:36:08-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16854"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16850"
author_name: "Dmitri Zagidulin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-12-08T09:36:08-08:00
---


You're right, I think the Python client doesn't support the HEAD /
metadata-only request.

I'm still curious, however - what will you do with the object metadata,
assuming you can code around the lack of support in the client?

On Tue, Dec 8, 2015 at 10:02 AM, Joe O  wrote:

&gt; Damien and Dmitri – Thanks for the guidance. This really helps me out.
&gt;
&gt; I see from the link Dmitri provided that a PB fetch object call does
&gt; indeed support a request for returning only metadata. Unfortunately, I do
&gt; not think this functionality is exposed in the Riak Python API
&gt; RiakBucket.get method, according to the docs at
&gt; http://basho.github.io/riak-python-client/bucket.html#bucket-objects . I
&gt; looked in the Python Riak client source code in GitHub (bucket.py), and
&gt; also did not see a HEAD implementation in ./transports/http/transport.py.
&gt; Am I looking in the right place? If it were implemented, it would be a
&gt; function of the ‘get' method on the bucket object, right?
&gt;
&gt; I did test the http HEAD method (albeit with curl’s flawed –X HEAD
&gt; implementation) and that did work.
&gt;
&gt; I can live with internal cluster bandwidth being used for a metadata
&gt; request. I don’t want to send large objects back down to the client that
&gt; aren’t being used.
&gt;
&gt; I understand the strategy of storing metadata for a given key in a
&gt; different bucket using the same key. I’m trying to avoid turning my
&gt; key-value store into a key-key-value-value store. There is an elegance to
&gt; storing both the data and the metadata at the same time and in the same
&gt; place via the same operation, so that is the perferred direction.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; From: Damien Krotkine
&gt; Date: Tuesday, December 8, 2015 at 12:35 AM
&gt; To: Dmitri Zagidulin
&gt; Cc: "technol...@nododos.com", riak-users
&gt; Subject: Re: Two quick questions about X-RIak-Meta-\\* headers....
&gt;
&gt; Hi Joe,
&gt;
&gt; First of all, what Dmitri says makes a lot of sense. From what I
&gt; understand, you are trying to avoid wasting network bandwidth by
&gt; transferring data where you only need the metadata of your keys. As Dmitri
&gt; pointed out, if your replication factor is 3 (default), then Riak will
&gt; internally query all the replica full \\*data\\* and metadata, then only return
&gt; the metadata to the client. From a network perspective, you'll save network
&gt; bandwidth \\*outside\\* of your cluster, but you'll use quite a lot of network
&gt; bandwidth \\*inside\\* of your cluster. Maybe that's not an issue. But if it
&gt; is, read on:
&gt;
&gt; 1/ first solution : as Dmitri suggested, the best approach is to decouple
&gt; your metadata and data, if possible. If your key is "my\\_stuff", then have
&gt; your data stored in the bucket "data" and the metadata stored in the bucket
&gt; "metadata". So that you'd fetch "metadata/my\\_stuff", then fetch
&gt; "data/my\\_stuff". This should make your life way easier, but the issue is
&gt; that you loose the strong relationship between data and metadata. To try to
&gt; mitigate this:
&gt; - when writing your data, start by writing "data/my\\_stuff" with
&gt; conservative parameters ( w=3 for instance ) then wait for the successful
&gt; write before storing the metadata. So that when the metadata is there,
&gt; there is a very high chance that the data is there as well.
&gt; - when updating your data: ry to be smart, like marking the metadata as
&gt; invalid or unavailable, while you change the data underneath then update
&gt; the metadata
&gt; - be fault tolerant on your application: if you fetch some metadata, but
&gt; the data is missing, retry, or wait, or gracefully fallback.
&gt; - be fault tolerant again: when fetching some data, have it contain a
&gt; header or an id that must match with the metadata. If it doesn't match, you
&gt; need to wait/retry/fallback
&gt; - if you don't want/can't handle that on the client side, it's possible to
&gt; enrich the Riak API and have Riak do the bookeeping itself. If you're
&gt; interested, let me know.
&gt;
&gt; 2/ second solution: you don't want / can't separate metadata and data. In
&gt; this case, you can try to reduce the network usage
&gt; - first, reduce the internal network usage inside the cluster. When
&gt; querying the metadata, if you're using the PB API, you can pass "n\\_val" as
&gt; parameter of your request. If you pass n\\_val=1, then Riak will not query
&gt; the 3 replicas to fetch the value, instead it'll fetch only one replica,
&gt; saving a lot of internal bandwidth.
&gt; - second, you can have your client query one of the primary node (where
&gt; one of the replica is) for a given key. Coupled with passing n\\_val=1, Riak
&gt; will not transfer anything on the internal network. you can check out
&gt; https://github.com/dams/riak\\_preflists to find the primary nodes.
&gt;
&gt; Dmitri Zagidulin wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Hi Joe,
&gt;
&gt; 1. Yes, it's possible (with the HTTP HEAD request, or the client library
&gt; equivalent (I'm pretty sure all the client libraries expose the 'return
&gt; only the headers' part of the object fetch -- see the Optional Parameters
&gt; head=true section of the PB API
&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/dev/references/protocol-buffers/fetch-object/
&gt; )).
&gt;
&gt; However, this is not going to be very helpful in your case. Behind the
&gt; scenes, a HEAD request still requests all replicas of an object -- \\*full\\*
&gt; replicas, including the value. It's just that the node coordinating the
&gt; request drops the actual object value before returning the metadata/headers
&gt; to the client.
&gt; So, if you use this 'just give me the metadata' request, you're only
&gt; saving on the cost of shipping the object value down the wire from the
&gt; cluster to the client. But you're still incurring the cost of all 3 copies
&gt; of the object (so, 3-4MB, in your case) being transferred over the network
&gt; between the nodes, as a result of that HEAD request.
&gt;
&gt; 2. I don't know that there is a specific size limit on the object header
&gt; values. However, this question is definitely a red flag -- it's very likely
&gt; that you're trying to use the custom headers in a way that they weren't
&gt; intended for.
&gt;
&gt; Can you describe in more detail what's your use case? (As in, what are you
&gt; trying to store as metadata, and why would retrieving just the headers be
&gt; useful to you.)
&gt;
&gt; Don't forget, that if you need to store a LOT of metadata on an object,
&gt; and you can't do it within the object value itself (for example, when
&gt; storing binary images), you can simply store a separate metadata object, in
&gt; a different bucket, using the same key as the object.
&gt; For example, if I'm storing my primary objects in the 'blobs' bucket, I
&gt; can also store a JSON object with corresponding metadata in a 'blobs-meta'
&gt; object, like so:
&gt;
&gt; /buckets/blobs/keys/blob123 --&gt; binary object value
&gt; /buckets/blobs-meta/keys/blob123 --&gt; json metadata object
&gt;
&gt; The downsides of this setup is that you're now doing 2 writes for each
&gt; object (one to the blobs bucket, and one to the meta bucket).
&gt; But the benefits are considerable:
&gt;
&gt; - You can store arbitrarily large metadata object (you're not abusing
&gt; object headers by stuffing large values into them)
&gt; - Since the metadata object is likely to be much smaller than the object
&gt; it's referring to, you can use the metadata object to check for an object's
&gt; existence (or to get the actual headers that you care about) without the
&gt; cost of requesting the full giant blob.
&gt;
&gt; Dmitri
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Mon, Nov 30, 2015 at 12:18 PM, Joe Olson 
&gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Two quick questions about X-RIak-Meta-\\* headers:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; 1. Is it possible to pull the headers for a key without pulling the key
&gt;&gt; itself? The reason I am interested in this is because the values for our
&gt;&gt; keys are in the 1.2-1.6 MB range, so the headers are a lot smaller in
&gt;&gt; comparison. I know I can index the headers using Solr or 2i, but I am
&gt;&gt; trying to involve the overhead of doing that.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; 2. What are the size limits on the headers values that are strings?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; As always, thanks in advance!
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing 
&gt; listriak-users@lists.basho.comhttp://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

