---
title: "Re: Tuning a Riak cluster."
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-02-22T01:51:29-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10200"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg10191"
author_name: "Kevin Burton"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-02-22T01:51:29-08:00
---


Ok I suspected as much. This will give me more ammo when requesting more 
resources. Thank you.
Now, back to the original question. Given that the physical hardware is taken 
care of. What parameters are most important when tuning a cluster. Again for 
arguments sake assume the same 4 node cluster with a read-write ratio of about 
75 percent.

On Feb 21, 2013, at 8:26 PM, Alexander Sicular  wrote:

&gt; It can't be said enough times but the number one thing you can do to ensure 
&gt; that you are getting true performance (not to mention redundancy) is to use 
&gt; different physical hardware for each of your nodes. Under no circumstances 
&gt; should you have more than one VM (one logical node in a Riak cluster) on the 
&gt; same physical hardware. Also, use multiple 
&gt; connections/threads/parallelism/whatever on client side and be sure to hit 
&gt; all the nodes in the cluster haproxy roundrobin-esque when writing to Riak. 
&gt; Everything else is in the noise.
&gt; 
&gt; -Alexander Sicular
&gt; 
&gt; @siculars
&gt; 
&gt; On Feb 21, 2013, at 9:04 PM, Kevin Burton  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; There each has about 20-30GB of disk space. They each are a VM so I am not 
&gt;&gt; sure how to specify the CPU. They all seem to be 64 bit Intel processors but 
&gt;&gt; I could tell you the clock speed. The network is 1Gb Ethernet.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; From: Sean Carey [mailto:ca...@basho.com] 
&gt;&gt; Sent: Thursday, February 21, 2013 7:59 PM
&gt;&gt; To: Kevin Burton
&gt;&gt; Cc: riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; Subject: Re: Tuning a Riak cluster.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Kevin,
&gt;&gt; Disk and CPU, and Network?
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Sean Carey
&gt;&gt; @densone
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On Thursday, February 21, 2013 at 20:31, Kevin Burton wrote:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; I have a cluster of 4 machines (4 Linux VM machines each allocated about 1 
&gt;&gt; Gb of memory – yea I know it isn’t a lot). I would like to get some pointers 
&gt;&gt; on getting the fastest query time possible given these meager resources. 
&gt;&gt; Thank you.
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

