---
title: "Re: Issue with Riak CS Pre-Authenticated URL"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-03-27T10:58:41-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10605"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg10604"
author_name: "Kelly McLaughlin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-03-27T10:58:41-07:00
---


Dave,

This is indeed a bug. I have a fix ready and I will be pushing it up to
github later today. In the meantime, I've opened an issue to track the
problem. Thanks for the report!

https://github.com/basho/riak\\_cs/issues/515

Kelly

On Wed, Mar 27, 2013 at 9:18 AM, Kelly McLaughlin  wrote:

&gt; Hey Dave. I'll try to reproduce this issue and get back to you about what
&gt; I find. Thanks.
&gt;
&gt; Kelly
&gt;
&gt; On Wed, Mar 27, 2013 at 8:38 AM, Dave Finster  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Just adding a bit more info at the request of shino1.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I've got a URL
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; http://intranet-development.myriakcs.com/fdcddce0-78ca-0130-bc9c-482a14143152?AWSAccessKeyId=1PBIAEUBPVXSASP0HKLC&Expires=1364393156&Signature=WMRuKTl73/TcmBj1UyH5agdg+NU=
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; which yields
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; `AccessDenied`
&gt;&gt; Access Denied
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; /intranet-development/fdcddce0-78ca-0130-bc9c-482a14143152
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I've got an nginx server out the front of 2 CS instances but I've also
&gt;&gt; run that URL directly against the CS instances and encountered the same
&gt;&gt; result. I don't see any entries in the logs for Riak/Riak CS/Stanchion
&gt;&gt; about the request aside from the 403 in the CS access logs.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Cheers,
&gt;&gt; Dave
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Begin forwarded message:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\*From: \\*Dave Finster 
&gt;&gt; \\*Subject: \\*\\*Issue with Riak CS Pre-Authenticated URL\\*
&gt;&gt; \\*Date: \\*27 March 2013 11:46:41 PM AEST
&gt;&gt; \\*To: \\*riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi Everyone
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Have been playing with Riak and now CS for a little while and have got
&gt;&gt; everything working by just using the aws-sdk gem and dropped my CS
&gt;&gt; credentials and endpoint in. I do seem to have encountered an issue with
&gt;&gt; the generation of pre-authenticated urls, or the query string auth method.
&gt;&gt; The aws-sdk uses the S3Object.url\\_for method (source here:
&gt;&gt; https://github.com/aws/aws-sdk-ruby/blob/master/lib/aws/s3/s3\\_object.rb )
&gt;&gt; which appears to property follow the auth guidelines (
&gt;&gt; http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/dev/RESTAuthentication.html#RESTAuthenticationQueryStringAuth
&gt;&gt; ).
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I'm trying to do a simple GET request for a file in a bucket and every
&gt;&gt; URL that gets generated comes back with 'Access Denied' and 403. The CS
&gt;&gt; access logs also show the same.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Wondering if anyone has any tips for diagnosing this issue further. At
&gt;&gt; the moment I've just got my Ruby code downloading the stored file to a
&gt;&gt; TempFile and then feeding that back to the client. Using s3cmd and aws-sdk
&gt;&gt; to fetch the file works fine - just seems to be something to do with the
&gt;&gt; query string auth method.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt; Dave
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

