---
title: "RE: Creating riak-kv bucket type programmatically"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2016-07-05T13:33:18-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg17512"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg17511"
author_name: "Nguyen, Kyle"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2016-07-05T13:33:18-07:00
---


Thanks John and Luke! This would help streamline our operation support task to 
manage our service which uses RIAK-KV in the future.

-Kyle-

From: John Daily [mailto:jda...@basho.com]
Sent: Tuesday, July 05, 2016 11:50 AM
To: Nguyen, Kyle
Cc: Riak Users
Subject: Re: Creating riak-kv bucket type programmatically

We punted on a bucket type API with Riak 2.0 because we tied authorization 
heavily to bucket types and didn’t have the time to unravel that knot. Since 
then we have yet to prioritize it.

I will make sure this is on the roadmap.

-John

On Jul 5, 2016, at 2:15 PM, Nguyen, Kyle 
&gt; wrote:

Hi all,

Is there a way for us to create bucket type programmatically without using the 
cli “sudo riak-admin bucket-type create my\\_bucket\\_type” command?

Thanks

-Kyle-


\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
The information contained in this message may be confidential and legally 
protected under applicable law. The message is intended solely for the 
addressee(s). If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby notified 
that any use, forwarding, dissemination, or reproduction of this message is 
strictly prohibited and may be unlawful. If you are not the intended recipient, 
please contact the sender by return e-mail and destroy all copies of the 
original message.
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

