---
title: "Re: Adding Nodes to a Running Cluster"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-08-25T08:38:47-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12133"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12132"
author_name: "Gints Gailītis"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-08-25T08:38:47-07:00
---


Well, I guess they're working on it -
http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/ops/running/nodes/adding-removing/#The-Node-Join-Process-
but for now, that's just something we have to live with during node
addition / removal.

Also, I guess, if you do it all in one go, it just finishes faster,
decreasing the time period where inconsistencies are expected.


On Sun, Aug 25, 2013 at 6:28 PM, Jeremiah Peschka &lt;
jeremiah.pesc...@gmail.com&gt; wrote:

&gt; Ah, the second bullet point ("Don't add nodes one at a time if you're
&gt; adding multiple nodes") clarifies it perfectly. I would've thought
&gt; otherwise since there are possibilities of false not\\_found responses during
&gt; node addition.
&gt;
&gt; Thanks for pointing me to that page.
&gt;
&gt; ---
&gt; Jeremiah Peschka - Founder, Brent Ozar Unlimited
&gt; MCITP: SQL Server 2008, MVP
&gt; Cloudera Certified Developer for Apache Hadoop
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Sun, Aug 25, 2013 at 8:23 AM, Gints  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; I believe they actually recommend adding all the nodes you want to add in
&gt;&gt; a
&gt;&gt; single step, instead of one by one - this way the hand-off will happen
&gt;&gt; only
&gt;&gt; once, and all the objects will go to the right nodes immediately.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; If you add nodes one by one, the objects will have to do multiple
&gt;&gt; transitions, since each added node will cause a redistribution of which
&gt;&gt; nodes will be responsible for which objects, causing a hand-off process
&gt;&gt; each
&gt;&gt; time, and you will consume more traffic, time and more resources to get
&gt;&gt; the
&gt;&gt; same final result.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/ops/building/planning/best-practices/#How-to-add-Nodes
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; View this message in context:
&gt;&gt; http://riak-users.197444.n3.nabble.com/Adding-Nodes-to-a-Running-Cluster-tp4028951p4028952.html
&gt;&gt; Sent from the Riak Users mailing list archive at Nabble.com.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

