---
title: "Riak unexpectedly crashes"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-11-27T06:40:42-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15258"
author_name: "Ivaylo Panitchkov"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-11-27T06:40:42-08:00
---


Hello,

I'm running a single Riak server used for dev purposes and noticed
something unexpected.
It happened few times in the past and I just want to share my observation
with you if someone experienced the same problem.
While the server was up and running it happened the machine needed to be
rebooted.
Once the reboot cycle completed I noticed the running Riak process suddenly
crashed.
If I try to start it again it continues crashing.
I haven't time to investigate what causing the problem but the way to solve
it was to simply delete the content of the bitcask folder (it's a dev
server so nothing critical there).

Thanks in advance,
Ivaylo


-- 
Ivaylo Panitchkov
Software developer
Hibernum Creations Inc.

Ce courriel est confidentiel et peut aussi être protégé par la loi.Si vous
avez reçu ce courriel par erreur, veuillez nous en aviser immédiatement en
y répondant, puis supprimer ce message de votre système. Veuillez ne pas le
copier, l’utiliser pour quelque raison que ce soit ni divulguer son contenu
à quiconque.
This email is confidential and may also be legally privileged. If you have
received this email in error, please notify us immediately by reply email
and then delete this message from your system. Please do not copy it or use
it for any purpose or disclose its content.
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

