---
title: "Re: Unable to configure Riak-CS-Control to manage users"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-10-09T07:47:31-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12564"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12565"
author_name: "Dmitri Zagidulin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-10-09T07:47:31-07:00
---


(Just to be extra clear, that's meant to be a comma at the end of that
directive, not a period. Also, don't forget to restart Riak CS Control,
after changing the proxy host).


On Wed, Oct 9, 2013 at 10:36 AM, Dmitri Zagidulin wrote:

&gt; Hi Siddhu,
&gt;
&gt; Can you try changing 'cs\\_proxy\\_host' to localhost? So:
&gt;
&gt; {cs\\_proxy\\_host, "127.0.0.1" }.
&gt;
&gt; and retry.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Wed, Oct 9, 2013 at 9:55 AM, Siddhu Warrier (siwarrie) &lt;
&gt; siwar...@cisco.com&gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I have a two node Riak CS (1.4) cluster set up on two nodes (node-1 and
&gt;&gt; node-2 henceforth). Node-1 is the headnode. Both node-1 and node-2 are
&gt;&gt; running CentOS-6.4.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\*N\\*\\*ode-1\\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; - Riak 1.4.2
&gt;&gt; - Stanchion 1.4.1
&gt;&gt; - Riak-CS 1.4.1
&gt;&gt; - Riak-CS-Control 1.0.2
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\*N\\*\\*ode-2\\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; - Riak 1.4.2
&gt;&gt; - Riak-CS 1.4.1
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I have got Riak CS working, and have created admin credentials that I've
&gt;&gt; set correctly on stanchion, riak-cs, and riak-cs-control on node 1, and on
&gt;&gt; riak-cs on node 2. I am able to use the admin credentials to perform
&gt;&gt; operations on the bucket using s3cmd.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; However, when I try to list riak-cs users using the riak-cs-control, I
&gt;&gt; get no results. The error that comes up in /var/log/riak-cs.log is:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; 10.0.1.202 - - [09/Oct/2013:13:09:31 +0000] "GET /buckets/users/objects 
&gt;&gt; HTTP/1.1" 403 160 "" ""
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I also receive a 403 when I try to create an admin user.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I saw https://github.com/basho/riak\\_cs\\_control/issues/31 and set my
&gt;&gt; /etc/riak-cs-control/app.config file up to use the cs\\_proxy\\_host parameter
&gt;&gt; as well, though I'm not using proxies, but to no avail. I have reproduced
&gt;&gt; the relevant section of my riak-cs-control/app.config here:
&gt;&gt; {riak\\_cs\\_control, [
&gt;&gt; %% What port to run the application on.
&gt;&gt; {port, 8000 },
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; %% Instance of Riak CS you wish to talk to.
&gt;&gt; {cs\\_hostname, "10.0.1.202" },
&gt;&gt; {cs\\_port, 8080 },
&gt;&gt; {cs\\_protocol, "http" },
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; %% Proxy information; necessary if you are using s3.amazonaws.comas
&gt;&gt; %% your hostname.
&gt;&gt; {cs\\_proxy\\_host, "10.0.1.202" },
&gt;&gt; {cs\\_proxy\\_port, 8080 },
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; %% Credentials you want the application to run as.
&gt;&gt; {cs\\_admin\\_key, "5VI-NIFLNIHKRNGKPBVX" },
&gt;&gt; {cs\\_admin\\_secret, "xxxxxxx" },
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; %% Specify the bucket name for administration options.
&gt;&gt; {cs\\_administration\\_bucket, "riak-cs" }
&gt;&gt; ]},
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Is there something I am missing/doing wrong?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Siddhu
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

