---
title: "Re: Riak CS: avoiding RAM overflow and OOM killer"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2016-11-23T12:17:02-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg17783"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg17782"
author_name: "Alexander Sicular"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2016-11-23T12:17:02-08:00
---


Hello DeadZen,

Yes, networking interconnect becomes a bigger issue with more nodes in the 
cluster. A Riak cluster is actually a fully meshed network of erlang virtual 
machines. Multiple 1/10 gig nics dedicated to inter/intra networking are your 
friends. That said, we have many customers running many 50+ node clusters. 

Happy thanksgiving ppl! 
-Alexander 


@siculars
http://siculars.posthaven.com

Sent from my iRotaryPhone

&gt; On Nov 23, 2016, at 10:59, DeadZen  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; ok I loled at this. then got worries trump could win a node election. 
&gt; 
&gt; anyways. 24gigs per riak server is not a bad safe bet. 
&gt; Erlang in general is ram heavy. It uses it more effectively then most 
&gt; languages wrt concurrency, but ram is the fuel for concurrency and buffer 
&gt; for operations, especially dumb operations involving large orange loud-mouth 
&gt; objects.. as pointed out you can increase cumulative resources by adding more 
&gt; physical nodes. and there is a trade off for adding more virtual nodes. 
&gt; theres also an IPC trade off adding more then a few dozen physical nodes in 
&gt; the same cluster. Theres also possiby a trade off using riak ts and riak kv 
&gt; in the same cluster. Nothing but tradeoffs. 
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On Tue, Nov 22, 2016 at 12:29 PM Alexander Sicular  
&gt;&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt; Hi Daniel,
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Ya, I'm not surprised you're having issues. 4GB ram is woefully underspecd. 😔
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 🤓Stupid math:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 3e7 x 3 (replication) / 9 = 1e7 minimum objects per node ( absolutely more 
&gt;&gt; due to obj &gt; 1MB size )
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 1e7 x ~400 bytes per obj in ram = 4e9 ram per node just for bitcask. Aka 4 
&gt;&gt; GB. 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; You already hit your limit. We can stop here. Done. End of. ☠️
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 🤔But let's continue for funzies😋. 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Assuming defaults:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Default ring\\_size = 64 / 9 nodes ~ 7 virtual nodes per physical node. 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Default leveldb ram allocation = 70%
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Leveldb operates, aka consumes resources including ram, on a vnode basis. It 
&gt;&gt; likes to consume ram on the order of 300MB through 2.5GB per vnode, 
&gt;&gt; increasing in performance till it caps. Even if you did switch everything to 
&gt;&gt; level you'd still be redlined. 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Bottom line is that bitcask, leveldb and your OS are fighting for ram all 
&gt;&gt; day 'ery day😡. Why you hate them and make them fight like that?😩 Not nice! 
&gt;&gt; (Trumpisms!)🤓
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; -Alexander
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; ps. You probably want to bump to 128 ring size. More vnodes equals more 
&gt;&gt; parallelism, but also means more resource consumption. You prob want min 8 
&gt;&gt; (v)CPU and 16GB min ram. YMMV, check my math. 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; pps. If you don't want to double your per VM cost (aws ec2, etc) you could 
&gt;&gt; add nodes to the cluster. Because Riak uniformly distributes data around the 
&gt;&gt; cluster adding nodes increase total resources to the cluster, reduces number 
&gt;&gt; of objects allocated to each node. The converse is also true, if you double 
&gt;&gt; your node size you could halve your node count. That said, systems like Riak 
&gt;&gt; like prefer more nodes. It's just a math game. 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; @siculars
&gt;&gt; http://siculars.posthaven.com
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Sent from my iRotaryPhone
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; On Nov 22, 2016, at 08:51, Daniel Miller  wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Hi Alexander,
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Thanks for responding.
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; How many nodes?
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; We currently have 9 nodes in our cluster.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; How much ram per node?
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Each node has 4GB of ram and 4GB of swap. The memory levels (ram + swap) on 
&gt;&gt;&gt; each node are currently between 4GB and 5.5GB.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; How many objects (files)? What is the average file size?
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; We currently have &gt;30 million objects, and I analyzed the average object 
&gt;&gt;&gt; size before we migrated data into the cluster it was about 4KB/object, with 
&gt;&gt;&gt; some objects being much larger (multiple MB). Is there an easy way to get 
&gt;&gt;&gt; this information from a running cluster so I can give you more accurate 
&gt;&gt;&gt; information?
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; On Tue, Nov 22, 2016 at 2:42 AM, Alexander Sicular  
&gt;&gt;&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt; Hi Daniel,
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; How many nodes?
&gt;&gt;&gt; -You should be using 5 minimum if you using the default config. There
&gt;&gt;&gt; are reasons.
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; How much ram per node?
&gt;&gt;&gt; -As you noted, in Riak CS, 1MB file chunks are stored in bitcask.
&gt;&gt;&gt; Their key names and some overhead consume memory.
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; How many objects (files)? What is the average file size?
&gt;&gt;&gt; -If your size distribution significantly skews &lt; 1MB that means you
&gt;&gt;&gt; will have a bunch of files in bitcask eating up ram.
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Kota was a former Basho engineer who worked on CS... That said, Basho
&gt;&gt;&gt; may not support a non standard deployment.
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; -Alexander
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; On Mon, Nov 21, 2016 at 2:45 PM, Daniel Miller  wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; I found a similar question from over a year ago
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; (http://lists.basho.com/pipermail/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com/2015-July/017327.html),
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; and it sounds like leveldb is the way to go, although possibly not well
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; tested. Has anything changed with regard to Basho's (or anyone else)
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; experience with using leveldb backend instead of the mutli backend for CS?
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; On Fri, Nov 4, 2016 at 11:48 AM, Daniel Miller  wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; Hi,
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; I have a Riak CS cluster up and running, and am anticipating exponential
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; growth in the number of key/value pairs over the next few years. From
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; reading the documentation and experience, I've concluded that the default
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; configuration of CS (with riak\\_cs\\_kv\\_multi\\_backend) keeps all keys in 
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; RAM.
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; The OOM killer strikes when Riak uses too much RAM, which is not good 
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; for my
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; sanity or sleep. Because of the amount of growth I am anticipating, it 
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; seems
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; unlikely that I can allocate enough RAM to keep up with the load. Disk, 
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; on
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; the other hand, is less constrained.
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; A little background on the data set: I have a sparsely accessed key set.
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; By that I mean after a key is written, the more time passes with that key
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; not being accessed, the less likely it is to be accessed any time soon. 
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; At
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; any given time, most keys will be dormant. However, any given key 
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; \\_could\\_ be
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; accessed at any time, so should be possible to retrieve it.
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; I am currently running a smaller cluster (with smaller nodes: less RAM,
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; smaller disks) than I expect to use eventually. I am starting to hit some
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; growth-related issues that are prompting me to explore more options 
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; before
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; it becomes a dire situation.
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; My question: Are there ways to tune Riak (CS) to support this scenario
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; gracefully? That is, are there ways to make Riak not load all keys into 
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; RAM?
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; It looks like leveldb is just what I want, but I'm a little nervous
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; switching over to only leveldb when the default/recommended config uses 
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; the
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; multi backend.
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; As a stop-gap measure, I enabled swap (with swappiness = 0), which I
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; anticipated would kill performance, but was pleasantly surprised to see 
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; it
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; return to effectively no-swap performance levels after a short period of
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; lower performance. I'm guessing this is not a good long-term solution as 
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; my
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; dataset grows. The problem with using large amounts of swap is that each
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; time Riak starts it needs to read all keys into RAM. Long term, as our
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; dataset grows, the amount of time needed to read keys into RAM will 
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; cause a
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; very long restart time (and thus period of unavailability), which could
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; endanger availability for a prolonged period if multiple nodes go down at
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; once.
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; Thanks!
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; Daniel Miller
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; Dimagi, Inc.
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

