---
title: "Re: Python client: Connection pool"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-06-25T07:45:13-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14372"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14371"
author_name: "Alex De la rosa"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-06-25T07:45:13-07:00
---


Hi Sean,

Thank you very much for your answer. So although I put 5 nodes in the
connection string, only 1 would be use for the overall process (PUT, PUT,
PUT, GET, etc...) until the end of the execution.

My second question was, if I have 5 nodes initially and i put them on my
connection string, and later I put 2 more nodes in the server but I didn't
put them in the connection string, would those 2 new nodes be available in
the pool? or only the ones specified?

Thanks,
Alex


On Wed, Jun 25, 2014 at 4:34 PM, Sean Cribbs  wrote:

&gt; Alex,
&gt;
&gt; No, it will only randomize the node when \\*opening\\* a connection. After
&gt; that, it just uses what is first available in the pool.
&gt;
&gt; We have an outstanding plan to support auto-configuring clients, but that
&gt; work did not make it into the 2.0 cycle.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Wed, Jun 25, 2014 at 7:18 AM, Alex De la rosa 
&gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi there,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Using the Python client, in the documentation I can read this:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; "The client maintains a connection pool behind the scenes, one for each
&gt;&gt; protocol. Connections are opened as-needed; a random node is selected when
&gt;&gt; a new connection is requested."
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Imagine that I create my connection like this:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; client = riak.RiakClient(protocol='pbc', nodes=[{'host':'X.X.X.1',
&gt;&gt; 'http\\_port':8098,'pb\\_port':8087},{'host':'X.X.X.2','http\\_port':8098,
&gt;&gt; 'pb\\_port':8087},{'host':'X.X.X.3','http\\_port':8098,'pb\\_port':8087},{
&gt;&gt; 'host':'X.X.X.4','http\\_port':8098,'pb\\_port':8087},{'host':'X.X.X.5',
&gt;&gt; 'http\\_port':8098,'pb\\_port':8087}])
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Specifying the 5 servers in my cluster... Every time that do a request
&gt;&gt; (PUT/GET/DELETE) is going to use a randomized host from the list? Also...
&gt;&gt; what if for example I add server X.X.X.6 and X.X.X.7? do I have to manually
&gt;&gt; edit my connection string to reflect those changes? Is there a way to
&gt;&gt; automatically use any node in the cluster without having to specify them
&gt;&gt; manually?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt; Alex
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt; Software Engineer
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; http://basho.com/
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

