---
title: "Re: Leveled and Anti-Entropy"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2017-07-21T08:01:49-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg18397"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg18396"
author_name: "Martin Sumner"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2017-07-21T08:01:49-07:00
---


Heinz,

No I haven't, but I will.

Thanks

Martin

On 21 July 2017 at 15:43, Heinz N. Gies  wrote:

&gt; Have you taken a look at the changes here https://github.com/
&gt; Kyorai/riak\\_core/pull/24
&gt;
&gt; It pulls the AAE work for riak\\_kv into riak\\_core.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On 21. Jul 2017, at 16:06, Martin Sumner 
&gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; I've added some anti-entropy features to Leveled (the pure-Erlang KV store
&gt; designed as a Riak backend). These features are in-part an experiment in
&gt; how to approach both anti-entropy and full-sync multi-data centre
&gt; replication in the future.
&gt;
&gt; There's a long write-up, including some history of AAE in Riak:
&gt;
&gt; https://github.com/martinsumner/leveled/blob/master/docs/ANTI\\_ENTROPY.md
&gt;
&gt; In summary, Riak's current AAE is based on cryptographically strong Merkle
&gt; trees, and this experiment is based on removing that security strength, as
&gt; it isn't relevant to the context in which is used. Instead Leveled now has
&gt; Merkle Trees that can be merged and also can be built incrementally (i.e.
&gt; be built key by key even when the keys are not in segment order).
&gt;
&gt; Using these new trees (coined TicTac trees to fit into Leveled's terrible
&gt; naming convention), we can build AAE trees in folds incrementally and hence
&gt; at a lower cost, but also merge trees across independent stores. In the
&gt; future trees can be built from folds using Riak coverage queries, across
&gt; either indexes or objects in the store - and compared between different
&gt; database clusters even where those clusters are partitioned differently
&gt; e.g. different ring-sizes.
&gt;
&gt; The expectation is that there will be more flexibility of choice in what
&gt; we can decide to compare at run time - not just are the objects consistent,
&gt; are the indexes consistent. Also split from partition constraints there
&gt; will be improved flexibility in what we can decide to compare between -
&gt; e.g. make it easier to compare with a different database.
&gt;
&gt; Coupled with this there's a demonstration of using temporary indexes in
&gt; Leveled, index entries that auto-expire at a TTL, and we've shown how this
&gt; can be used with tree-creating folds to compare recent changes between
&gt; stores at a lower cost than comparing the whole database state: with the
&gt; added advantage that the long-term footprint of the database is not
&gt; extended by maintaining a separate copy of all the keys and hashes.
&gt;
&gt; Concurrently to this, we now have some other work ongoing in the space of
&gt; replication and anti-entropy:
&gt;
&gt; - @russelldb is continuing to test and improve his open source real-time
&gt; replication solution (rabl) which uses RabbitMQ. He's hoping to be able to
&gt; talk further on progress with this by the end of August.
&gt; - I'm working on implementing in riak\\_core a core\\_node\\_worker\\_pool, which
&gt; is intended to compliment the core\\_vnode\\_worker\\_pool but allow for coverage
&gt; queries where snapshots are taken on a covering set of vnodes, but folds
&gt; are then scheduled to run one-at-a-time on each node. This can then be
&gt; used to regulate the impact of anti-entropy folds.
&gt;
&gt; Our current target is to have a release candidate of open-source
&gt; replication (both real-time and full-sync) by the end of September. This
&gt; will initially be focused only on replication between two Riak clusters.
&gt;
&gt; Regards
&gt;
&gt; Martin (@masleeds)
&gt;
&gt; P.S. Hopefully next Friday we should also be able to report back on the
&gt; improvements and test enhancements that followed up the work on riak\\_core
&gt; claim.
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

