---
title: "Re: RiakTS and Multi-Backend"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2016-10-12T09:55:00-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg17690"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg17689"
author_name: "John Daily"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2016-10-12T09:55:00-07:00
---


We have not done any work to support the multi-backend, hence the error you’re 
seeing. TS depends exclusively on leveldb.

We’re not recommending the use of KV functionality in the TS product yet, 
because the latter is still changing rapidly and we will need to go back and 
fix some basic KV mechanisms. We’re also not yet sure of the performance 
characteristics if both KV and TS are in use under heavy load.

In short: I apologize, but we’re not really ready to support your use case yet.

-John

&gt; On Oct 12, 2016, at 12:17 PM, Junk, Damion A  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; Hello all -
&gt; 
&gt; I was wondering if it is possible to use RiakTS with a multi-backend 
&gt; configuration. 
&gt; 
&gt; I have an existing set of applications using RiakKV and Bitcask, but we're 
&gt; now wanting to start using some of the TS features on a new project. Setting 
&gt; up the multi-backend configuration with TS seems to work fine (our app 
&gt; existing app reads the Bitcask buckets and SOLR indices without issue), and 
&gt; we can even create a TS schema. We have LevelDB as the default backend, so 
&gt; presumably this is what was used during the "create table" query.
&gt; 
&gt; When trying to query the TS table, we're seeing:
&gt; 
&gt; 2016-10-12 10:02:41.372 [error] &lt;0.1410.0&gt; gen\\_fsm &lt;0.1410.0&gt; in state active 
&gt; terminated with reason: call to undefined function 
&gt; riak\\_kv\\_multi\\_backend:range\\_scan/4 from riak\\_kv\\_vnode:list/7 line 1875
&gt; 
&gt; And then in the client code, no return until finally an Exception (Riak Java 
&gt; Client).
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks for any assistance!
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; Damion
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com


\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

