---
title: "Re: [ANN] Riak 2.0.0beta1"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-04-16T16:47:33-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14105"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14104"
author_name: "Jared Morrow"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-04-16T16:47:33-07:00
---


This is now fixed, sorry for the trouble.

-Jared

On Wednesday, April 16, 2014, Jared Morrow  wrote:

&gt; That's my fault, I had a script timeout on that package upload and I
&gt; didn't notice it. Sorry, it will be fixed shortly.
&gt;
&gt; -Jared
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Wed, Apr 16, 2014 at 2:09 PM, Andrew Zeneski 
&gt; 
&gt; &gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; No more OS X builds?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Wed, Apr 16, 2014 at 12:51 PM, Tom Santero 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; &gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Hello Riak Users,
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; The Basho Team is happy to release Riak 2.0.0-beta1. The source tarball
&gt;&gt;&gt; and pre-built packages are available for download [0]. Note that we've
&gt;&gt;&gt; added support for FreeBSD 10, and removed support for SmartOS 1.6.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; By calling this version "beta" we consider this release feature frozen,
&gt;&gt;&gt; as opposed to the previous pre-release builds which were still moving
&gt;&gt;&gt; targets. Similar to the pre-releases, 2.0.0beta1 is not intended for
&gt;&gt;&gt; production use, and may contain bugs. Over the coming weeks the Basho
&gt;&gt;&gt; engineering team will continue testing Riak rigorously, to identify and
&gt;&gt;&gt; squash any bugs that may have been introduced with the number of features
&gt;&gt;&gt; we're excited to deliver.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; As always, feedback from the community is invaluable. We strongly
&gt;&gt;&gt; encourage you to download beta1, test it for yourself and report any issues
&gt;&gt;&gt; you encounter via the mailing list or on GitHub.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; You'll find a getting started with Riak 2.0 guide on the docs [1]. If
&gt;&gt;&gt; you're completely new to 2.0 and the features we've added--such as bucket
&gt;&gt;&gt; types, Solr, strong consistency and data types--you'll find links to the
&gt;&gt;&gt; relevant documentation, supplementary reading materials and conference
&gt;&gt;&gt; videos there.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Also note that as we head toward a GA release of Riak 2.0 the docs site
&gt;&gt;&gt; is being updated on an almost-daily basis. Some features may not yet be
&gt;&gt;&gt; fully documented. If you come across anything in the documentation that is
&gt;&gt;&gt; incorrect, or even poorly worded, please feel free to open an issue or
&gt;&gt;&gt; submit a pull request[2].
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Regards,
&gt;&gt;&gt; Tom
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; [0] http://docs.basho.com/riak/2.0.0beta1/downloads/
&gt;&gt;&gt; [1] http://docs.basho.com/riak/2.0.0beta1/intro-v20/
&gt;&gt;&gt; [2] https://github.com/basho/basho\\_docs
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

