---
title: "Re: Tune Riak for fast inserts - populate DB"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-02-14T00:18:13-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10121"
author_name: "Erik Søe Sørensen"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-02-14T00:18:13-08:00
---


Just to rule something out: what is the capacity of the network between the 
cluster and the client - and among the cluster nodes?


-------- Oprindelig meddelelse --------
Fra: Shuhao 
Dato:
Til: riak-users@lists.basho.com
Emne: Re: Tune Riak for fast inserts - populate DB


Hi,

I've had similar experiences with riak. I used the Riak Python client
with HTTP and PBC (even rolled my own client! That only had a ~10% speed
up though, and it was HTTP only). I've also examined that the Riak host
machine's CPU is only at around 70% when I insert. Other NoSQL dbs uses
about 100% when I just continuous insert. Some DBs even have bulk insert.

Maybe this is an issue with Riak itself... I don't really know. Maybe a
Riak dev could chip in on the conversation

Cheers,

Shuhao

On 13-02-13 02:37 AM, Bogdan Flueras wrote:
&gt; Hello all,
&gt; I've got a 5 node cluster with Riak 1.2.1, all machines are multicore,
&gt; with min 4GB RAM.
&gt;
&gt; I want to insert something like 50 million records in Riak with the java
&gt; client (Protobuf used) with default settings. I've tried also with HTTP
&gt; protocol and set w = 1 but got some problems.
&gt;
&gt; However the process is very slow: it doesn't write more than 6GB/ hour or
&gt; aprox. 280 KB/second.
&gt; To have all my data filled in, it would take aprox 2 days !!
&gt;
&gt; What can I do to have the data filled into Riak ASAP?
&gt; How should I configure the cluster ? (vm.args/ app.config) I don't care so
&gt; much about consistency at this point.
&gt;
&gt; Thank you,
&gt; ing. Bogdan Flueras
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

