---
title: "Re: status of signature version 4 requests"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-08-06T07:42:13-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16373"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16367"
author_name: "Henrik Lund Kramshøj"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-08-06T07:42:13-07:00
---




Kazuhiro Suzuki wrote:
&gt; Hi Henrik,
Hi All

&gt; 
&gt; It seems http proxy option[1] is needed to specify your Riak CS node
&gt; instead of the endpoint option. Could you try to use it?
&gt; Although you might already know, there is a good docs[2] which
&gt; explains how Riak CS can interact with S3 clients.
&gt; 
&gt; [1]: 
&gt; http://docs.aws.amazon.com/aws-sdk-php/v3/guide/guide/configuration.html#proxy
&gt; [2]: 
&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riakcs/latest/cookbooks/configuration/Configuring-Riak-CS/#Proxy-vs-Direct-Configuration

Going back to developers it seems they use something called Flyssystem,
which has v2 and v3 adapters
http://flysystem.thephpleague.com/adapter/aws-s3-v2/

So I have solved my problem for now, by using the flysystem v2 adapter,
with something like:
use Aws\\S3\\S3Client;
use League\\Flysystem\\AwsS3v2\\AwsS3Adapter;
use League\\Flysystem\\Filesystem;

$client = S3Client::factory([
 'key' =&gt; AWS\\_KEY,
 'secret' =&gt; AWS\\_SECRET\\_KEY,
 'region' =&gt; 'local',
 'endpoint' =&gt; 'http://s3.amazonaws.com:8080',
]);

- and also catching the s3.amazonaws.com DNS with DNSmasq and sending
requests to the Riak CS.

I will of course look into the proxy parts too, and refine this with a
better named endpoint.

Thank you for input, Riak CS proved to be easier to get up than expected.

Best regards

Henrik

&gt; 
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; Kaz
&gt; 
&gt; On Thu, Aug 6, 2015 at 3:43 PM, Kota Uenishi  wrote:
&gt;&gt; Henrik,
&gt;&gt; Thank you for trying Riak CS. Besides, current status of v4
&gt;&gt; authentication is not yet GA, not all features implemented, and only
&gt;&gt; partially tested with boto (Python AWS library). I'm not sure what's
&gt;&gt; going on in your cluster, but can you find any error or warning logs
&gt;&gt; simaltenously happning your 500?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Tue, Aug 4, 2015 at 7:14 PM, Henrik Lund Kramshøj  
&gt;&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt; Hi There
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; I am researching self-hosted alternatives to S3, and found Riak CS.
&gt;&gt;&gt; Setup was OK, and I currently can access the server fine with s3cmd
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Unfortunately I cannot make it work with AWS SDK PHP version 3, since it
&gt;&gt;&gt; uses signature version 4.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; I have done lots of trial and error, using PHP
&gt;&gt;&gt; define('AWS\\_KEY', 'xxx');
&gt;&gt;&gt; define('AWS\\_SECRET\\_KEY', 'xxx');
&gt;&gt;&gt; $client = new S3Client([
&gt;&gt;&gt; 'credentials' =&gt; [
&gt;&gt;&gt; 'key' =&gt; AWS\\_KEY,
&gt;&gt;&gt; 'secret' =&gt; AWS\\_SECRET\\_KEY
&gt;&gt;&gt; ],
&gt;&gt;&gt; 'region' =&gt; 'local',
&gt;&gt;&gt; 'version' =&gt; '2006-03-01',
&gt;&gt;&gt; 'endpoint' =&gt; '172.xx.x.xx:8080',
&gt;&gt;&gt; // 'signature\\_version' =&gt; 'v4'
&gt;&gt;&gt; ]);
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; signature\\_version can only be v4 or anonymous.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; What is the expectation with v4 requests?
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; I did find the option, auth\\_v4\\_enabled:
&gt;&gt;&gt; root@riaks2:/etc/riak-cs# cat advanced.config
&gt;&gt;&gt; [
&gt;&gt;&gt; {riak\\_cs, [
&gt;&gt;&gt; %% {auth\\_v4\\_enabled, true}
&gt;&gt;&gt; ]}
&gt;&gt;&gt; ].
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; but it ends up in error 500
&gt;&gt;&gt; ""Internal Server Error
=====================

""
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Do I need more configuration, or is it not ready.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; root@riaks2:/etc/riak-cs# lsb\\_release -a
&gt;&gt;&gt; No LSB modules are available.
&gt;&gt;&gt; Distributor ID: Ubuntu
&gt;&gt;&gt; Description: Ubuntu 14.04.2 LTS
&gt;&gt;&gt; Release: 14.04
&gt;&gt;&gt; Codename: trusty
&gt;&gt;&gt; root@riaks2:/etc/riak-cs# dpkg -l | egrep "riak|stanchion"
&gt;&gt;&gt; ii riak 2.0.5-1
&gt;&gt;&gt; amd64 Riak is a distributed data store
&gt;&gt;&gt; ii riak-cs 2.0.1-1
&gt;&gt;&gt; amd64 Riak CS
&gt;&gt;&gt; ii stanchion 2.0.0-1
&gt;&gt;&gt; amd64 Request Serialization Application
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Best regards
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Henrik
&gt;&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt;&gt; Henrik Lund Kramshøj, Follower of the Great Way of Unix
&gt;&gt;&gt; internet samurai cand.scient CISSP
&gt;&gt;&gt; h...@krugercorp.dk +45 2678 1919
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; Kota UENISHI / @kuenishi
&gt;&gt; Basho Japan KK
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 

-- 
Henrik Lund Kramshøj, Follower of the Great Way of Unix
internet samurai cand.scient CISSP
h...@krugercorp.dk +45 2678 1919

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

