---
title: "Re: [ANN] Kria 0.1.14, an async Clojure Client for Riak 2.0.0.rc1"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-07-23T12:00:13-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14541"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14540"
author_name: "Sean Cribbs"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-07-23T12:00:13-07:00
---


David,

Thanks for contributing to the Riak ecosystem! A few notes:

Looking over your README, I see you're probably doing some unnecessary work
with respect to the .proto files [1]. We generate, package, and deploy all
of those on Maven Central [2] specifically so others can use them as you
have, while maintaining the authenticity of the code (it comes from us) and
reducing duplication (not N copies everywhere).

I don't want to bikeshed it (you obviously have your reasons), but it bears
mentioning that the new official Java client is designed so that it would
be easier to write wrapper libraries in other JVM languages, and to give
the user the option of async or sync at the API level.

[1] https://github.com/bluemont/kria#protocol-buffer-setup
[2] https://search.maven.org/#search%7Cga%7C1%7Ca%3A%22riak-pb%22


On Wed, Jul 23, 2014 at 1:31 PM, David James  wrote:

&gt; The latest version of Kria, 0.1.14, supports Riak 2.0.0rc1. Kria (a right
&gt; rotation of "Riak") is an open source asynchronous Clojure driver for Riak
&gt; 2.0 built on top of Java 7's NIO.2. It uses the Riak protocol buffer
&gt; interface.
&gt;
&gt; https://github.com/bluemont/kria
&gt; https://clojars.org/kria
&gt;
&gt; There are, of course, several Riak drivers for Java and Clojure. I hope
&gt; some people find this one useful. I have a section in the README about why
&gt; I made it. To summarize, I wanted async support, and the Java driver wasn't
&gt; quite what I wanted.
&gt;
&gt; Please kick the tires.
&gt;
&gt; In my work projects, Clojure's core.async works great as a layer on top of
&gt; Kria. Just create a core.async channel in advance and have the callback put
&gt; the desired return value in the core.async channel. (You could also use
&gt; Clojure atoms or promises; Kria doesn't care.)
&gt;
&gt; -David
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;


-- 
Sean Cribbs 
Software Engineer
Basho Technologies, Inc.
http://basho.com/
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

