---
title: "Re: Is Riak dead?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2017-07-14T09:28:08-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg18352"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg18350"
author_name: "Alexander Sicular"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2017-07-14T09:28:08-07:00
---


I love your enthusiasm Lloyd. How about starting with a slack channel
and take it from there...

Things that would kinda need to happen for Riak to grow beyond where it is now:

- complete rebranding. Basho is dead. The term "Riak" may be encumbered.
- new everything. name. domain. github repo. bla bla bla.

Instead of a framework, how can the Riak codebase actually become an
Apache project?





On Thu, Jul 13, 2017 at 8:06 PM,  wrote:
&gt; Hi,
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; If there is enough interest, I'd be happy to do the legwork in Boston and
&gt; put up a very modest contribution toward up-front cost with hope of recovery
&gt; through registrations.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Boston has conference spaces of all sizes. I would imagine a conference on
&gt; the future of open-source Riak would be a fairly intimate group. I'm also
&gt; imagining a fairly bare-bones event to minimize cost of registration.
&gt; Registration cost should be just enough to cover the venue and nibbles.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Just to kick off brain-storming:
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; 1. Say two days--- Friday and Saturday
&gt;
&gt; 2. Friday: Invite short (20 minute) proposals on key topics
&gt;
&gt; a. Clarifying legal issues
&gt;
&gt; b. Technical road map
&gt;
&gt; c. Organizational framework; e.g. ala Apache Foundation or some such
&gt;
&gt; d. Marketing; e.g. expanding the open-source community
&gt;
&gt; 3. Saturday (or Saturday morning)
&gt;
&gt; Discussion sessions with goal of recommendations for moving forward
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; How to get from here to there:
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; 1. Is there enough interest on the mailing list?
&gt;
&gt; 2. How can we pin down an agenda?
&gt;
&gt; 3. Can we get corporate sponsorships to minimize registration?
&gt;
&gt; 4. How can we most widely promote the event?
&gt;
&gt; 5. What else?
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; All the best,
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Lloyd
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; -----Original Message-----
&gt; From: "Russell Brown" 
&gt; Sent: Thursday, July 13, 2017 4:00pm
&gt; To: ll...@writersglen.com
&gt; Cc: "riak-users" , "Senthilkumar Peelikkampatti"
&gt; , "Russell Brown" 
&gt; Subject: Re: Is Riak dead?
&gt;
&gt; We have talked about it. Let's do it!
&gt;
&gt; On Jul 13, 2017 7:56 PM, ll...@writersglen.com wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Hmmm--- I wonder if anyone has given thought to a conference focused on the
&gt; future of open-source Riak?
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; I'm sure there are many good ideas out there re: roadmap and governance.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; It's just too great not to be worth deep thought and prudent action.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; All the best,
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; LRP
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; -----Original Message-----
&gt; From: "Russell Brown" 
&gt; Sent: Thursday, July 13, 2017 12:40pm
&gt; To: "Senthilkumar Peelikkampatti" 
&gt; Cc: "riak-users" 
&gt; Subject: Re: Is Riak dead?
&gt;
&gt; Hi Senthilkumar,
&gt; No Riak is not dead. It’s parent company, Basho is dead. And they kept the
&gt; keys. There are numerous forks that are being worked on. Hopefully something
&gt; that is a canonical, community backed fork will emerge. Past mailing list
&gt; posts show strong support from large commercial and govt. organisations.
&gt; Riak is open source and will continue to be critical infrastructure for
&gt; numerous organisation in its niche for some time.
&gt;
&gt; There are also a few support organisations springing up, as well as the
&gt; existing partners (Erlang Solutions, Trifork etc.) If you’re asking me, this
&gt; could be a very good thing for Riak in the medium to long term. It and it’s
&gt; users and community were served very badly by Basho these last couple of
&gt; years. It’s a little trodden under, but no way dead. Give it a little time
&gt; to bounce back.
&gt;
&gt; Cheers
&gt;
&gt; Russell
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On 11 Jul 2017, at 08:15, Senthilkumar Peelikkampatti 
&gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Is Riak dead? No new activities on Riak GitHub repo.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; https://github.com/basho/riak\\_kv/pulse/monthly
&gt;&gt; https://github.com/basho/riak/pulse/monthly
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt; Senthil
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

