---
title: "Re: Packagecloud.io issue"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-04-01T12:27:06-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15948"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15933"
author_name: "Greg Cymbalski"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-04-01T12:27:06-07:00
---


Alex-
 We’ve managed to reproduce that issue and are researching it now. It does 
appear to be something in the package itself; not sure how that didn’t turn up 
until now.

 We’ll keep you updated. Thanks!
 —Greg

On Mar 30, 2015, at 9:00 AM, riak-users-requ...@lists.basho.com wrote:

&gt; Date: Mon, 30 Mar 2015 11:55:41 +0200
&gt; From: Alex De la rosa 
&gt; To: riak-users 
&gt; Subject: Packagecloud.io issue
&gt; Message-ID:
&gt; 
&gt; Content-Type: text/plain; charset="utf-8"
&gt; 
&gt; Hi there,
&gt; 
&gt; I want to report again a problem I have with packagecloud.io; everytime I
&gt; do "aptitude update" I get a hit as if a new version of Riak is available
&gt; (that is not)... and I have to re-install Riak to a version I already have.
&gt; 
&gt; I just did an "aptitude safe-upgrade" and upgraded Riak to version 2.0.5
&gt; (latest):
&gt; 
&gt; # aptitude safe-upgrade
&gt; The following packages will be upgraded:
&gt; ... ... ... riak ... ... ... ... ... ...
&gt; [...]
&gt; Unpacking riak (2.0.5-1) over (2.0.1) ...
&gt; [...]
&gt; 
&gt; # riak version
&gt; 2.0.5
&gt; 
&gt; # aptitude update
&gt; Hit https://packagecloud.io trusty InRelease
&gt; Hit https://packagecloud.io trusty/main Sources
&gt; Hit https://packagecloud.io trusty/main amd64 Packages
&gt; Hit https://packagecloud.io trusty/main i386 Packages
&gt; 
&gt; # aptitude safe-upgrade
&gt; The following packages will be upgraded:
&gt; riak
&gt; 1 packages upgraded, 0 newly installed, 0 to remove and 0 not upgraded.
&gt; Need to get 0 B/55.4 MB of archives. After unpacking 0 B will be used.
&gt; Do you want to continue? [Y/n/?]
&gt; 
&gt; if i select Y i get the following:
&gt; 
&gt; Unpacking riak (2.0.5-1) over (2.0.5-1) ...
&gt; 
&gt; and everytime I check for updates, "riak" comes as requiring an update
&gt; although is not true. How to fix that? makes no sense it continues coming
&gt; as needing to be upgraded when is the same exact version.
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; Alex
&gt; -------------- next part --------------
&gt; An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
&gt; URL: 
&gt; 

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

