---
title: "Re: is it possible to connect to a remote Riak cluster with Riak	console"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-04-07T11:19:04-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10739"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg10730"
author_name: "Tom Zeng"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-04-07T11:19:04-07:00
---


Hi Sean,

I got error using erl -remsh, same thing happended when I tried to ssh to
the riak server (riak is in /usr/sbin and user does not have sudo
privilege):

erl -remsh riak@ -setcookie riak
Erlang R15B01 (erts-5.9.1) [source] [64-bit] [async-threads:0] [hipe]
[kernel-poll:false]

\\*\\*\\* ERROR: Shell process terminated! (^G to start new job) \\*\\*\\*

same happened with erl -remsh riak@localhost -setcookie riak on the riak
server

Thanks,
Tom




On Sat, Apr 6, 2013 at 11:41 AM, Tom Zeng  wrote:

&gt; Thanks very much for the info Sean, will give that a try, dont' know about
&gt; the cookie setting on the server yet, will find that out.
&gt;
&gt; Tom
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Fri, Apr 5, 2013 at 10:10 AM, Sean Cribbs  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Tom,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; You can do it like this (assuming -setcookie riak is in your vm.args):
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; erl -remsh riak@ -setcookie riak
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; That will give you an Erlang shell connected to the remote node, but
&gt;&gt; do note that a few things are different:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; 1) You should use "Ctrl-G q" to quit the console.
&gt;&gt; 2) You will not receive log messages from lager in the console.
&gt;&gt; 3) If the network becomes bogged down, from load or connectivity
&gt;&gt; issues, you might have decreased responsiveness from the shell.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Fri, Apr 5, 2013 at 7:02 AM, Tom Zeng  wrote:
&gt;&gt; &gt; Hi,
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; I am wondering how to connect to a remote Riak cluster with riak
&gt;&gt; console, or
&gt;&gt; &gt; if it's possible. I was hoping there's --host option but that didn't
&gt;&gt; work.
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt; &gt; Tom
&gt;&gt; &gt; --
&gt;&gt; &gt; Tom Zeng
&gt;&gt; &gt; Director of Engineering
&gt;&gt; &gt; Intridea, Inc. | www.intridea.com
&gt;&gt; &gt; t...@intridea.com
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt;&gt; Software Engineer
&gt;&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt;&gt; http://basho.com/
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

