---
title: "Re: Need help with Riak-KV (2.1.4) certificate based authentication	using Java client"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2016-08-29T14:20:59-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg17602"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg17601"
author_name: "Luke Bakken"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2016-08-29T14:20:59-07:00
---


Hi Kyle -

Thanks for the info. Just so you know, setting check\\_clr = off means
that Riak will not validate the signing chain of your client
certificate.

What value are you using for "CN=" for the certificates pointed to by
the various "ssl.\\*" settings in riak.conf?

http://docs.basho.com/riak/kv/2.1.4/using/security/basics/#certificate-configuration

I ask because the validation of the server certificate by the client
during the TLS handshake depends on the CN= value.

--
Luke Bakken
Engineer
lbak...@basho.com

On Mon, Aug 29, 2016 at 2:07 PM, Nguyen, Kyle  wrote:
&gt; Thanks a lot, Luke! I finally got the mutual certificate based authentication 
&gt; working by setting check\\_clr = off since I don't see any documentation on how 
&gt; to set this up and we might not need this feature. Another thing that I added 
&gt; to make it work is to add the correct entry for cidr. I was using 
&gt; 127.0.0.1/32 instead of 10.0.2.2/32 which is the Ubuntu ip that my laptop 
&gt; localhost is sending the request to.
&gt;
&gt; +--------------------+------------+-----------+----------+
&gt; | users | cidr | source | options |
&gt; +--------------------+------------+-----------+----------+
&gt; | kyle |10.0.2.2/32 |certificate| []
&gt;
&gt; TLS also works without using the DNS-resolvable hostname with protocol 
&gt; buffer. Hence, I thought you must have referred to HTTPS.
&gt;
&gt; -Kyle-
&gt;
&gt; -----Original Message-----
&gt; From: Luke Bakken [mailto:lbak...@basho.com]
&gt; Sent: Monday, August 29, 2016 7:59 AM
&gt; To: Nguyen, Kyle
&gt; Cc: Riak Users
&gt; Subject: Re: Need help with Riak-KV (2.1.4) certificate based authentication 
&gt; using Java client
&gt;
&gt; Kyle -
&gt;
&gt; What is the output of these commands?
&gt;
&gt; riak-admin security print-users
&gt; riak-admin security print-sources
&gt;
&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riak/kv/2.1.4/using/security/basics/#user-management
&gt;
&gt; Please note that setting up certificate authentication \\*requires\\* that you 
&gt; have set up SSL / TLS in Riak as well.
&gt;
&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riak/kv/2.1.4/using/security/basics/#enabling-ssl
&gt;
&gt; The SSL certificates used by Riak \\*must\\* have their "CN=" section match the 
&gt; server's DNS-resolvable host name. This is an SSL/TLS requirement, not 
&gt; specific to Riak. Then, when you connect via the Java client, you must use 
&gt; the DNS name and not IP address. The client must have the appropriate public 
&gt; key information to validate the server cert as well (from Get a Cert).
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Luke Bakken
&gt; Engineer
&gt; lbak...@basho.com

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

