---
title: "Re: search-cmd - could not read"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-06-23T08:42:10-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14351"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14350"
author_name: "Russell Brown"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-06-23T08:42:10-07:00
---


Hi Mark,

Answers inline below.

On 23 Jun 2014, at 15:58, Mark Richard Thomas  wrote:

&gt; Hello
&gt; 
&gt; Why does the search-cmd return a “Could not read” error?
&gt; 
&gt; · search-cmd show-schema mybucket &gt; /root/schema.txt
&gt; 
&gt; · search-cmd set-schema mybucket /root/schema.txt
&gt; 
&gt; :: Updating schema for 'mybucket'...
&gt; :: ERROR: Could not read '/root/schema.txt'.
&gt; RPC to 'r...@abc.def.ntg.ghi.com' failed: {'EXIT',-1}

Does the user have permission to access “/root/schema.txt”? Does it exist?

Also, if you want to use search with Riak, and you’re not going live in the 
next month or so, I strongly recommend that you look at Yokozuna, or Riak 
Search 2.0: Legacy Search as shipped in the 1.\\* series has many issues. The new 
Search in 2.0 is a completely different product, and the future for Riak. 
Unless you have an application in production, please consider riak 2.0 search 
first.

http://docs.basho.com/riak/2.0.0beta1/dev/using/search/ for docs and getting 
started.

Cheers

Russell

&gt; 
&gt; Mark Thomas | Software Engineer | Equifax UK
&gt; 
&gt; p: +44 (0)208 941 0573
&gt; m: +44 (0)7908 798 270
&gt; e: mark.tho...@equifax.com
&gt; 
&gt; Equifax Ltd, Capital House, 25 Chapel Street, London, NW1 5DS
&gt; 
&gt; Equifax Limited is registered in England with Registered No. 2425920. 
&gt; Registered Office: Capital House, 25 Chapel Street, London NW1 5DS. Equifax 
&gt; Limited is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
&gt; Equifax Touchstone Limited is registered in Scotland with Registered No. 
&gt; SC113401. Registered Office: 54 Deerdykes View, Westfield Park, Cumbernauld 
&gt; G68 9HN.
&gt; Equifax Commercial Services Limited is registered in the Republic of Ireland 
&gt; with Registered No. 215393. Registered Office: IDA Business & Technology 
&gt; Park, Rosslare Road, Drinagh, Wexford.
&gt; 
&gt; This message contains information from Equifax which may be confidential and 
&gt; privileged. If you are not an intended recipient, please refrain from any 
&gt; disclosure, copying, distribution or use of this information and note that 
&gt; such actions are prohibited. If you have received this transmission in error, 
&gt; please notify by e-mail postmas...@equifax.com.
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com


\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

