---
title: "Re: riak performance"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-12-20T00:45:36-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13304"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13303"
author_name: "Russell Brown"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-12-20T00:45:36-08:00
---


Hi Georgio,

With data that small I doubt there is a difference in perf.

Can I get some more info, please?

Are you getting 2400 reqs a second against a single key? What backend are you 
using? What is the spec of the machines? Are they real or on some cloud? 
Network?

Is this perf figure against cs or riak? Have you tried the PB driver? What is 
the ring size? What “requests” are you doing? Are they serial in a loop using 
CURL or parallel using basho\\_bench?

Something is wrong, because on my local 3 desktop cluster I can get well over 
5000ops/sec.

If you can provide more info then we can probably help you get performance 
closer to your expectations.

Cheers

Russell


On 20 Dec 2013, at 08:33, Georgio Pandarez  wrote:

&gt; Hi Guys,
&gt; 
&gt; I'm still evaluating riak & riak-cs.
&gt; 
&gt; On my five node cluster, with riak only, I am only able to do 2400 requests 
&gt; per second. I have two keys, one a one byte key, and another a 4kb key, the 
&gt; performance doesn't change against either.
&gt; 
&gt; Is this the best that I can expect to get from this, I don't consider 2400 
&gt; rps to be significantly high for 5 machines. I'm testing using the http 
&gt; interface.
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com



signature.asc
Description: Message signed with OpenPGP using GPGMail
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

