---
title: "RE: Getting basho_bench to work."
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-03-20T11:45:34-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10501"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg10496"
author_name: "Kevin Burton"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-03-20T11:45:34-07:00
---


So your theory is the the 'check the configuration' is not from basho\\_bench
but from erlang. What configuration needs to change? The link mentions
running a deamon that maps long names to short names. Do I need that? As far
as I can tell I am using the "standard" naming convetion
(r...@xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx). Do you think this is a 'long name'?

 

From: Roberto Aloi [mailto:prof...@gmail.com] 
Sent: Wednesday, March 20, 2013 1:16 PM
To: Kevin Burton
Cc: riak-users@lists.basho.com
Subject: Re: Getting basho\\_bench to work.

 

Hi,

 

At a glance, it looks like the basho\\_bench node couldn't start correctly
with a longname.

How are you starting basho\\_bench?

 

This issue could be due to a misconfiguration in the hostname for your
machine.

How do your /etc/hosts and /etc/hostname look like? 

 

For information about shortnames and longnames in Erlang:

 

http://www.snookles.com/erlang-docs/R15B03/doc/reference\\_manual/distributed.
html

 

 

On Wed, Mar 20, 2013 at 6:36 PM, Kevin Burton 
wrote:

I reiterate the request to see what is wrong with my basho\\_bench
configuration. I have attached the configuration as well as the output. Any
ideas as to what is wrong would be greatly appreciated. I basically used
the templates in the 'examples' folder but apparently there is something
wrong. 


\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com





 

-- 
Roberto Aloi
---
Website: http://roberto-aloi.com
Twitter: @robertoaloi

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

