---
title: "Re: riak 2.0 pre11.1 doesn't start"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-03-17T14:50:34-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13819"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13818"
author_name: "Buri Arslon"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-03-17T14:50:34-07:00
---


Thanks, Michael.

I checked ports and made sure they were free. I even rebooted my server to
start from clean. Didn't help.


On Mon, Mar 17, 2014 at 3:07 PM, Michael Dillon
wrote:

&gt; Best way to do a quick check to see if Riak started OK is to run
&gt;
&gt; netstat -lnp
&gt;
&gt; and see if something is listening on the Riak ports like 8089 or whatever
&gt; you have changed it too. If something is listening, then the PID that is
&gt; doing it is listed. Kill that PID and you have killed Riak and can start it
&gt; normally.
&gt;
&gt; Of course it is better to use the normal way for starting and stopping
&gt; Riak, and never use the -9 option on kill.
&gt;
&gt; Also, you really should be looking at log files to figure out problems.
&gt; There are several in /var/log/riak
&gt;
&gt; Actually, now that I think about it, you probably cannot run riak console
&gt; if riak is already running. Either start riak using "riak console" INSTEAD
&gt; OF riak start, or use riak attach to connect to an already running one. But
&gt; the messages that have already been displayed will not reappear. Look in
&gt; the logs.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Mon, Mar 17, 2014 at 1:58 PM, Buri Arslon  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi guys!
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; ./riak start is giving me "wait\\_for\\_erlang" error. I had added a detailed
&gt;&gt; info here: https://github.com/basho/riak/issues/512
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; any hints?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; thanks,
&gt;&gt; Buriwoy
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; PageFreezer.com
&gt; #200 - 311 Water Street
&gt; Vancouver, BC V6B 1B8
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

