---
title: "Re: #PERSONAL# Select objects between a time interval (8:00 to 8:05)	in riak"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-05-08T22:36:14-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11048"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg11047"
author_name: "OJ Reeves"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-05-08T22:36:14-07:00
---


You can add a binary secondary index on the object which has the timestamp
in it in the format that you've shown above. Then you can do a range query
on that value. You can then query for this objects directly via 2i or you
can pass them into a map/reduce job using 2i as the inputs.

Cheers.
OJ



On Thu, May 9, 2013 at 2:45 PM, Sivaraman Vi  wrote:

&gt;
&gt; Hello All,
&gt;
&gt; I am trying to implement the following functionality in Riak. I have a
&gt; bucket where I am storing objects. One of the JSON field in the object is
&gt; timestamp. Now I want to retrieve the objects whose timestamp is between an
&gt; interval like (20130605 08:00:00 to 20130605 08:05:00) I mean i need to get
&gt; all the objects from 8.00 to 8.05.
&gt; Can I implement this using Map Reduce or using secondary indexes?
&gt;
&gt; Another approach I am considering is that the bucket itself would be
&gt; created like 20130605:0800:0805 and then store the objects under this
&gt; bucket. So now, I dont want to implement conditional time interval based
&gt; queries. Please suggest a way.
&gt;
&gt; Regards,
&gt; Sivaraman
&gt;
&gt; =====-----=====-----=====
&gt; Notice: The information contained in this e-mail
&gt; message and/or attachments to it may contain
&gt; confidential or privileged information. If you are
&gt; not the intended recipient, any dissemination, use,
&gt; review, distribution, printing or copying of the
&gt; information contained in this e-mail message
&gt; and/or attachments to it are strictly prohibited. If
&gt; you have received this communication in error,
&gt; please notify us by reply e-mail or telephone and
&gt; immediately and permanently delete the message
&gt; and any attachments. Thank you
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;


-- 

OJ Reeves
+61 431 952 586
http://buffered.io/
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

