---
title: "Re: Riak 1.4.2 10G Ethernet Performance Problems"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-06-20T10:55:18-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14335"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14327"
author_name: "Chris Read"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-06-20T10:55:18-07:00
---


We still have this problem (we're on riak 1.4.9) and it's very frustrating!

Our average object size right now is ~250k. We're running with:

+zdbbl 2097151


I've tried the settings above on a 5 node test cluster, no improvement.

I then bumped both buffers up to 1048576 on all nodes - no improvement.

Finally I tried putting the buffers up to 4194304 - still no improvement.

For the record my kernel is Ubuntu 3.13.0-27, with the following
network settings:

net.core.netdev\\_max\\_backlog = 10000
net.core.rmem\\_default = 8388608
net.core.rmem\\_max = 104857600
net.core.somaxconn = 4000
net.core.wmem\\_default = 8388608
net.core.wmem\\_max = 104857600
net.ipv4.tcp\\_congestion\\_control = cubic
net.ipv4.tcp\\_fin\\_timeout = 15
net.ipv4.tcp\\_low\\_latency = 0
net.ipv4.tcp\\_max\\_syn\\_backlog = 40000
net.ipv4.tcp\\_slow\\_start\\_after\\_idle = 0
net.ipv4.tcp\\_tw\\_reuse = 1

Chris

On Wed, Jun 18, 2014 at 7:32 PM, Evan Vigil-McClanahan
 wrote:
&gt; Hi Earl,
&gt;
&gt; There are some known internode bottlenecks in riak 1.4.x. We've
&gt; addressed some of them in 2.0, but others likely remain. If you're
&gt; willing to run some code at the console, running the following at the
&gt; console (from `riak attach`) should tell you whether or not the 2.0
&gt; changes are likely to help you. I am not sure when 2.0 ready versions
&gt; of CS are slated for, however.
&gt;
&gt; -----
&gt; [inet:setopts(Port, [{sndbuf, 393216}, {recbuf, 786432}])
&gt; || {\\_Node, Port} &lt;- erlang:system\\_info(dist\\_ctrl)].
&gt;
&gt; or to run this on all nodes (which you'll have to do to see if it helps):
&gt;
&gt; FF = fun() -&gt;
&gt; [inet:setopts(Port, [{sndbuf, 393216}, {recbuf, 786432}])
&gt; || {\\_Node, Port} &lt;- erlang:system\\_info(dist\\_ctrl)]
&gt; end.
&gt; rpc:multicall(erlang, apply, [FF, []]).
&gt;
&gt; You should not run any of this on production machines without
&gt; extensive testing first. Also if you have huge objects, like in a CS
&gt; cluster, it may help to increase the buffer sizes somewhat.
&gt;
&gt; Note that increasing +zdbbl in your vm.args can also help somewhat, if
&gt; it isn't already prohibitively large.
&gt;
&gt; Hope that this helps. Let us know what you find.
&gt;
&gt; Evan
&gt;
&gt; On Wed, Jun 18, 2014 at 4:57 PM, Earl Ruby  wrote:
&gt;&gt; Chris Read:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Back in 2013 you reported a performance problem with Riak 1.4.2 running on a
&gt;&gt; 10GbE network where Riak would never hit speeds faster than 2.5Gbps on the
&gt;&gt; network.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I'm seeing the same thing with Riak 1.4.2 and RiakCS. I've followed all of
&gt;&gt; the tuning suggestions, my MTU is set to 9000 on the ethernet interfaces, I
&gt;&gt; have one 10GbE network just for the backend inter-node data and one 10GbE
&gt;&gt; "public" network where RiakCS listens for connections and which basho\\_bench
&gt;&gt; uses to generate the load. I have 1-4 client systems on the public side
&gt;&gt; running basho\\_bench and no matter how much traffic I generate with
&gt;&gt; basho\\_bench I never see more than 3Gbits/s on the network. (It doesn't seem
&gt;&gt; to matter if I run 1 or 4 clients, each with 200 concurrent sessions, the
&gt;&gt; network data rate is about the same.) I'm running jnettop in two different
&gt;&gt; windows during the tests to watch the aggregate network traffic on the
&gt;&gt; private inter-node data network and the "public" basho\\_bench
&gt;&gt; traffic-generating network.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I've tested the network with iperf3 and it shows 9.92Gbits/s throughput with
&gt;&gt; a TCP maximum segment size of 9000.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I've tested the filesystems on each of the 6 Riak nodes using fio, and I can
&gt;&gt; write to the filesystems at ~12.8Gbits/s, so the filesystem is not the
&gt;&gt; bottleneck. Each node has 128GB RAM and is running the bitcask backend. The
&gt;&gt; servers are mostly idle.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I tried Sean's solution of increasing these values to:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; {riak\\_core, [
&gt;&gt; {handoff\\_batch\\_threshold, 4194304},
&gt;&gt; {handoff\\_concurrency, 10} ]}
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; ... as described in
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/pipermail/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com/2013-October/013787.html,
&gt;&gt; but that had no effect.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; With my current hardware I'd expect that the 10GbE network would be the
&gt;&gt; bottleneck, and I'd expect write speeds to top out at the top end of the
&gt;&gt; network speed.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; There was no follow-up message on the mailing list to indicate how or if
&gt;&gt; you'd solved the problem. Did you find a solution?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; (Please direct replies to the mailing list.)
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

