---
title: "Re: ulimit error"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2016-04-15T16:26:27-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg17234"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg17233"
author_name: "satish bhatti"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2016-04-15T16:26:27-07:00
---


I had an old version (1.4.6) installed. I installed the latest version in
the 1.4 series (1.4.12) using the Basho package. This appears to have
fixed the problem. Thanks for the pointer! I guess the other version I had
built myself.


On Fri, Apr 15, 2016 at 2:46 PM, Luke Bakken  wrote:

&gt; Satish -
&gt;
&gt; Thanks for the info. Did you install the Basho-packaged Riak or build
&gt; it yourself?
&gt;
&gt; If you built it yourself, I suspect you are running into this issue:
&gt; https://github.com/basho/riak/issues/267
&gt;
&gt; Fix is here: https://gist.github.com/vinoski/4689170
&gt;
&gt; Please remember to use "reply all" so that the riak-users list may
&gt; gain from our debugging.
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Luke Bakken
&gt; Engineer
&gt; lbak...@basho.com
&gt;
&gt; On Fri, Apr 15, 2016 at 2:05 PM, satish bhatti  wrote:
&gt; &gt; Remote Shell: Use "Ctrl-C a" to quit. q() or init:stop() will terminate
&gt; the
&gt; &gt; riak node.
&gt; &gt; Erlang R15B01 (erts-5.9.1) [source] [64-bit] [smp:8:8] [async-threads:0]
&gt; &gt; [kernel-poll:false]
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Eshell V5.9.1 (abort with ^G)
&gt; &gt; (riak@127.0.0.1)1&gt; os:cmd("ulimit -n").
&gt; &gt; "65536\\n"
&gt; &gt; (riak@127.0.0.1)2&gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; On Fri, Apr 15, 2016 at 1:21 PM, Luke Bakken  wrote:
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; Please run:
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; riak attach
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; then in the Erlang shell:
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; os:cmd("ulimit -n").
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; Please note that the period at the end of the above statement is
&gt; &gt;&gt; significant. CTRL-C twice will exit the attach session.
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; --
&gt; &gt;&gt; Luke Bakken
&gt; &gt;&gt; Engineer
&gt; &gt;&gt; lbak...@basho.com
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; On Fri, Apr 15, 2016 at 1:02 PM, satish bhatti 
&gt; wrote:
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; That's the strange thing. I read that, and modified
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; /Library/LaunchDaemons/limit.maxproc.plist
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; /Library/LaunchDaemons/limit.maxfiles.plist
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; as described.
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; ulimit -n claims to be set to 65536
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; I have attached the logfiles.
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

