---
title: "Re: RFC: Let's Make Riak-Core Easier to Use"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-11-05T21:43:26-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12868"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12861"
author_name: "DeadZen"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-11-05T21:43:26-08:00
---


#6 - Erlang R16 Compatibility in a tagged release...
Some people aren't comfortable using a develop branch in production..
It's an important thing for riak\\_core applications and irrelevant of riak,
speaking of that..

#7 - Riak Core should be treated as a standalone app, not as a riak app..
A lot of things are neglected for long times because riak isn't ready for
them,
or even worse, some closed sourced code isn't ready for them..
For instance Licenser's pull request.. speaking of that...

 #8 - Pull requests should be maintained and addressed sooner, merged or
closed..
Some pull requests have sat for close to a year, this only makes them
harder to merge,
or worse, the pull request was already done independently without noticing
theres a pull request.

Hopefully this doesn't come off as too critical, I did try to find a nice
way to put it..
I know there's a lot of things to balance..


On Tue, Nov 5, 2013 at 6:02 PM, Sam Elliott  wrote:

&gt; Riak-Core, Riak-Users,
&gt;
&gt; So far I've had some fantastic feedback! This is what my list of things to
&gt; work on looks like so far:
&gt;
&gt; 1. Documentation. Wow, yes, we'll get some ready for you. I'm working out
&gt; how to integrate them with the rest of riak's docs, and once I've done that
&gt; I'll start actually researching and writing.
&gt;
&gt; 2. Examples. They go hand in hand with docs. I have a few I want to write,
&gt; and I think Chris has written some before. We also have prior examples that
&gt; we could do with updating.
&gt;
&gt; 3. rebar template(s). This hasn't been particularly well maintained, we'll
&gt; do something about that so that people can get going faster.
&gt;
&gt; 4. Testing. There are various suggestions, but I think I'll put some
&gt; effort into making riak\\_test easier to use with your own app. riak\\_test is
&gt; the system we use for testing riak itself, including introducing network
&gt; partitions and doing cluster upgrades.
&gt;
&gt; 5. Maybe after all of that I can look at the internal APIs and make them
&gt; easier to use, and make the demarcation between the features of riak\\_core
&gt; and riak\\_kv a bit clearer.
&gt;
&gt; 6. ??? Seriously, if you have more suggestions, send them to me. I'm happy
&gt; for people to send me suggestions privately if they don't want some details
&gt; in the public.
&gt;
&gt; I should point out the process won't be immediate. I'm not going to aim to
&gt; have work done by 2.0. Of course I want stuff to be done quickly, but I
&gt; value everything being correct and good quality above that.
&gt;
&gt; Sam
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Sam Elliott
&gt; Engineer
&gt; sam.elli...@basho.com
&gt; --
&gt;
&gt; On Tue, Oct 29, 2013 at 8:13 PM, Sam Elliott  sam.elli...@basho.com)&gt; wrote:
&gt; &gt; Hey Riak-Users (and Riak-Core)
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Some time ago, Basho released riak\\_core as a framework for building
&gt; distributed applications [1].
&gt; &gt; One of the key pieces of guidance that was given at the time was that
&gt; you should use the features
&gt; &gt; of riak\\_kv if your app needed to do any persistence. With the new
&gt; features we'll be releasing in
&gt; &gt; 2.0 [2], we want to make riak\\_core the best toolkit for building complex
&gt; distributed applications
&gt; &gt; with both CP and AP semantics.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; As I see it, the main thing that is preventing most people from writing
&gt; their own riak\\_core
&gt; &gt; application is that there's not an API that allows people to easily do
&gt; so. There's a basic internal
&gt; &gt; KV client at the moment, but there are some features that it doesn't
&gt; cover.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Post-RICON (and almost certainly after the 2.0 release), I'm going to
&gt; focus on making riak\\_core
&gt; &gt; applications really easy to make, and riak\\_kv easy to use from a
&gt; riak\\_core application.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; I'd love any feedback that you all have. How can we improve the current
&gt; APIs? How can we make it
&gt; &gt; really easy for people to create riak\\_core apps? How can we nicely
&gt; expose the newest features of
&gt; &gt; riak\\_kv for people to use in their riak\\_core applications?
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Bonus points for feedback from anyone who has built and run a riak\\_core
&gt; application in production.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Sam
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; PS: I have some swag to give to anyone who's helpful
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; [1]: http://basho.com/where-to-start-with-riak-core/
&gt; &gt; [2]: http://basho.com/introducing-riak-2-0/
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; --
&gt; &gt; Sam Elliott
&gt; &gt; Engineer
&gt; &gt; sam.elli...@basho.com (mailto:sam.elli...@basho.com)
&gt; &gt; --
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-core mailing list
&gt; riak-c...@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-core\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt; 
&gt;
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

