---
title: "Re: Schemas, is worth to store values in SOLR?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2016-05-11T11:50:00-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg17328"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg17327"
author_name: "Alex De la rosa"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2016-05-11T11:50:00-07:00
---


My use case for searching is mainly for internal purposes, rankings and
statistics (all that data is pre-compiled and stored into final objects for
the app to display)... so I think is best to not store anything in SOLR and
just fetch keys to compile the data when required.

Thanks,
Alex

On Wed, May 11, 2016 at 10:40 PM, Alexander Sicular 
wrote:

&gt; Those are exactly the two options and opinions vary generally based on use
&gt; case. Storing the data not only take up more space but also more io which
&gt; makes things slower not only on read time , but more crucially , at write
&gt; time.
&gt;
&gt; Often people will take a hybrid approach and store certain elements like ,
&gt; say , for blog posts , the author , publish date and title fields. Yet they
&gt; will leave the body out of the solr index. That way you could quickly
&gt; generate lists of posts by title and only fetch the body when the post is
&gt; clicked through.
&gt;
&gt; What is your use case?
&gt;
&gt; Best,
&gt; Alexander
&gt;
&gt; On Wednesday, May 11, 2016, Alex De la rosa 
&gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi all,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; When creating a SOLR schema for Riak Search, we can chose to store or not
&gt;&gt; the data we are indexing, for example:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I know that the point to have the value stored is to be able to get it
&gt;&gt; returned automatically when doing a search query... that implies using more
&gt;&gt; disc to store data that maybe never would be searched and making the return
&gt;&gt; slower as more bytes are required to get the data.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Would it be better to just index data but not store the values, returning
&gt;&gt; only Riak IDs (\\_yz\\_id) and then doing a multi-get in the client/API to
&gt;&gt; fetch the objects for the final response?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Or would it be better to store the values in SOLR so they will be already
&gt;&gt; fetched when searching?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; What would give better performance or more sense in terms of disc space
&gt;&gt; on an application that normally you won't be using much searching (all data
&gt;&gt; is more or less discoverable without searching using GETs)
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks and Best Regards,
&gt;&gt; Alex
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Alexander Sicular
&gt; Solutions Architect
&gt; Basho Technologies
&gt; 9175130679
&gt; @siculars
&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

