---
title: "Re: Riak Search - Fast Bulk Insert"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-08-14T07:38:19-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14651"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14650"
author_name: "Dmitri Zagidulin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-08-14T07:38:19-07:00
---


Hi Mark,

The best way to bulk load objects into Riak (and into Solr) is to take
advantage of Riak's parallelism.
Spin up a bunch of worker threads (and have them share a pool of
connections) and have them issue parallel concurrent puts to all of the
nodes in a cluster (you can either use something like HAProxy to load
balance, or a riak client's internal load balancing capabilities).

This is what https://github.com/basho-labs/riak-data-migrator does, for
example, to restore filed out objects quickly.





On Thu, Aug 14, 2014 at 5:26 AM, Mark Richard Thomas &lt;
mark.tho...@equifax.com&gt; wrote:

&gt; Hello
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; What’s the fastest way (best practice) to insert 20 million documents into
&gt; a Riak Search index?
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; search-cmd solr my\\_bucket /insert.xml
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; For a proof-of-concept I’ve create a file (index.html) containing 100,000
&gt; documents:
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; 
&gt;
&gt; 
&gt;
&gt; 
&gt;
&gt; :
&gt;
&gt; 
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Thanks
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Mark Thomas | Software Engineer | Equifax UK
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; p: +44 (0)208 941 0573
&gt;
&gt; m: +44 (0)7908 798 270
&gt;
&gt; e: mark.tho...@equifax.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Equifax Ltd, Capital House, 25 Chapel Street, London, NW1 5DS
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Equifax Limited is registered in England with Registered No. 2425920. 
&gt; Registered
&gt; Office: Capital House, 25 Chapel Street, London NW1 5DS. Equifax Limited is
&gt; authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
&gt;
&gt; Equifax Touchstone Limited is registered in Scotland with Registered No.
&gt; SC113401. Registered Office: 54 Deerdykes View, Westfield Park, Cumbernauld
&gt; G68 9HN.
&gt;
&gt; Equifax Commercial Services Limited is registered in the Republic of
&gt; Ireland with Registered No. 215393. Registered Office: IDA Business &
&gt; Technology Park, Rosslare Road, Drinagh, Wexford.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; This message contains information from Equifax which may be confidential
&gt; and privileged. If you are not an intended recipient, please refrain from
&gt; any disclosure, copying, distribution or use of this information and note
&gt; that such actions are prohibited. If you have received this transmission in
&gt; error, please notify by e-mail postmas...@equifax.com.
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

