---
title: "Re: Riak Java Protobuf objects"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-01-21T10:04:32-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13431"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13429"
author_name: "Jon Brisbin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-01-21T10:04:32-08:00
---


Is the Protobuf interaction still enforced sequentially? e.g. responses only 
come in the order in which the corresponding request was sent and a long 
request will hold up the results of subsequent, but smaller requests? I guess 
the answer for parallelism is to simply use a pool of connections. How many per 
client are considered acceptable now that R16 has better non-blocking IO 
support? 


Thanks!

Jon Brisbin
http://about.me/jonbrisbin | Twitter: @JonBrisbin


On Tuesday, January 21, 2014 at 11:51 AM, Brian Roach wrote:

&gt; Jon,
&gt; 
&gt; Yes, we released riak\\_pb 2.0.0.11 to maven central for the new Riak
&gt; Java Client v2.0 core preview (the all-new official async Riak Java
&gt; client based on Netty[1]) we announced a couple weeks ago - it
&gt; supports all the new Riak 2.0 functionality.
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; com.basho.riak.protobuf
&gt; riak-pb
&gt; 2.0.0.11
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; [1] - https://github.com/basho/riak-java-client/tree/master
&gt; 
&gt; On Tue, Jan 21, 2014 at 7:22 AM, Jon Brisbin  (mailto:j...@jbrisbin.com)&gt; wrote:
&gt; &gt; Have the Riak Java Protobuf artifacts been updated to take advantage of Riak
&gt; &gt; 2.0 features yet?
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; I'd like to work some more on getting the Riaktor (Riak async Java client
&gt; &gt; based on Reactor [1]) up to Riak 2.0 functionality. Currently I'm using the
&gt; &gt; Protobuf artifact for the actual objects I need to do the interactions. I'm
&gt; &gt; handling all the network IO through Reactor/Netty and using the simple
&gt; &gt; codecs in Reactor.
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; If not, can I just generate the Java objects I need from the original
&gt; &gt; protobuf definitions?
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; [1] - https://github.com/reactor/reactor
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; Thanks!
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; Jon Brisbin | Reactor Project Lead
&gt; &gt; http://about.me/jbrisbin | @j\\_brisbin
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 


\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

