---
title: "Re: key expiration and memory"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-09-04T01:33:25-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12190"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12153"
author_name: "Alexander Ilyin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-09-04T01:33:25-07:00
---


Hi all,

we still experiencing problems with memory consumption, even thinking
of switching to another storage :(

Some time ago I turned off AAE and virtual memory usage on the servers
dropped by 25%. I was surprised because AAE is turned on by default
and it isn't said in the docs that it is such an expensive feature in
terms of memory.
But the physical memory was still close to what available on the
servers and I decided to reduce expiry\\_secs. But that didn't affect
physical memory consumption although one merge process has already
finished.

Questions:
\\* Why memory usage didn't drop after reducing expiry\\_secs (AAE turned off)?
\\* How I can ensure that merge process have enough time to delete old
keys? May be it deletes them slower than new keys are added?
\\* I estimate that quantity of new keys put in riak equal to old keys
which should be expired; why memory constantly grows in this
situation?

In general, I want to know how to predict riak memory consumption (at
least approximately). Because we aren't ready to buy new servers not
knowing it.

On 29 August 2013 14:44, Alexander Ilyin  wrote:
&gt; Dmitri,
&gt;
&gt; yes, I have AAE turned on and this discussion seems relevant to my case.
&gt; As far as I have understood I have to wait for every tree to expire
&gt; after changing expiry\\_secs setting (which should be less than a week).
&gt; But according to 'riak-admin aee-status' entropy tree built time is
&gt; less than 3 days for every partition while setting change had been
&gt; made earlier. And only one node actually dropped its memory
&gt; consumption by now. Am I missing something?
&gt;
&gt; May be turning AEE off (at least for some time) will help me to reduce
&gt; memory consumption since no trees with expired keys at all would be
&gt; built?
&gt;
&gt; On 28 August 2013 19:12, Dmitri Zagidulin  wrote:
&gt;&gt; Alexander, quick question - do you have Active Anti-Entropy turned on? If
&gt;&gt; yes, check out this discussion:
&gt;&gt; http://riak-users.197444.n3.nabble.com/Active-Anti-Entropy-with-Bitcask-Key-Expiry-td4027688.html
&gt;&gt; (might shed more light on the matter).
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; is there a cheap way to figure out the number of keys stored in a bucket?
&gt;&gt; No. You can do a streaming list keys, which is less expensive than listing
&gt;&gt; keys used to be, but I'm not sure that counts as cheap.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; how long does it take to purge old keys from the storage?
&gt;&gt; This depends on how often Bitcask merges are performed. The expired keys are
&gt;&gt; actually removed from disk when merging/compaction occurs (though until
&gt;&gt; then, they will return as not found to client requests).
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; is it possible to see how many keys were expired for the last
&gt;&gt;&gt; minute/hour/day?
&gt;&gt; I don't think so - Bitcask doesn't send any notification to Riak when it
&gt;&gt; expires the keys, and I don't think it keeps any records of its own.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Wed, Aug 28, 2013 at 4:56 AM, Alexander Ilyin 
&gt;&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Hi,
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; we're using Riak 1.3.1 with a Bitcask storage engine on a 4 node cluster.
&gt;&gt;&gt; Properties of the bucket used:
&gt;&gt;&gt; {"props":{"allow\\_mult":false,"
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; basic\\_quorum":false,"big\\_vclock":50,"chash\\_keyfun":{"mod":"riak\\_core\\_util","fun":"chash\\_std\\_keyfun"},"dw":"quorum","last\\_write\\_wins":false,"linkfun":{"mod":"riak\\_kv\\_wm\\_link\\_walker","fun":"mapreduce\\_linkfun"},"n\\_val":2,"name":"c","notfound\\_ok":true,"old\\_vclock":86400,"postcommit":[],"pr":0,"precommit":[],"pw":0,"r":"one","rw":"quorum","small\\_vclock":50,"w":"one","young\\_vclock":20}}
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; 3 nodes crashed today morning almost simultaneously, fourth node had
&gt;&gt;&gt; crashed earlier this nignt. It's hard to figure out the reason of the crash
&gt;&gt;&gt; looking into the logs, but I suppose this is due to insufficient RAM
&gt;&gt;&gt; available on the servers (this maillist doesn't like big attachments but I
&gt;&gt;&gt; can send logs if it will help).
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Actually, I'm dealing with Riak memory usage for some time already. Some
&gt;&gt;&gt; time ago I figured out that memory usage is much more than it is promised in
&gt;&gt;&gt; the documentation
&gt;&gt;&gt; (http://riak-users.197444.n3.nabble.com/memory-consumption-td4028674.html).
&gt;&gt;&gt; After that I tried to reduce number of keys stored, changing the expiry\\_secs
&gt;&gt;&gt; setting from 2 months to 1 month. I expected the memory usage to drop in
&gt;&gt;&gt; half because new keys are put into Riak at a approximately same rate for
&gt;&gt;&gt; last two months and Bitcask stores all keys in memory. But that didn't
&gt;&gt;&gt; happen. Memory usage have dropped a little but grew again in a few days.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; So the questions are:
&gt;&gt;&gt; \\* is there a cheap way to figure out the number of keys stored in a
&gt;&gt;&gt; bucket?
&gt;&gt;&gt; \\* how long does it take to purge old keys from the storage?
&gt;&gt;&gt; \\* is it possible to see how many keys were expired for the last
&gt;&gt;&gt; minute/hour/day?
&gt;&gt;&gt; \\* are there some other ways to reduce memory usage I'm missing except for
&gt;&gt;&gt; adding new servers?
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Thanks in advance.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

