---
title: "Re: Product Advisory - Riak 2.1.0: Default Configuration For Handoff	May Cause Data Loss"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-05-06T14:42:17-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16118"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16090"
author_name: "Tyler Hannan"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-05-06T14:42:17-07:00
---


Riak 2.1.1 has been released. All package repositories are updated as
is the documentation[0]

Riak 2.1.0 introduced a bug that has been fixed in Riak 2.1.1 [1]. The
default configuration for handoff.ip caused vnodes marked for transfer
during handoff to be removed without transferring data to their new
destination nodes. A mandatory change to configuration (riak.conf)
mitigates this issue for 2.1.0 users. While not all users were
impacted by this issue, we recommend that all 2.1.0 users upgrade to
2.1.1.

[0] http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/downloads/
[1] https://github.com/basho/riak/pull/734

Cheers,

Tyler Hannan | Director of Technical Marketing
Basho Technologies
t: @tylerhannan
c: 720-280-9216


On Fri, May 1, 2015 at 2:51 PM, Tyler Hannan  wrote:
&gt; UPDATE: Further investigation has shown that fallback transfers
&gt; (hinted handoff) are affected in the same way as ownership transfers.
&gt;
&gt; Our engineering team is working on fixing this as high priority. We
&gt; apologize for any impact this having on our users.
&gt;
&gt; Cheers,
&gt;
&gt; Tyler Hannan | Director of Technical Marketing
&gt; Basho Technologies
&gt; t: @tylerhannan
&gt; c: 720-280-9216
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Fri, May 1, 2015 at 12:36 PM, Tyler Hannan  wrote:
&gt;&gt; -Description-
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; In Riak 2.1.0, the default configuration for handoff.ip causes vnodes
&gt;&gt; marked for transfer during handoff to be removed without transferring
&gt;&gt; data to their new destination nodes. A mandatory change to
&gt;&gt; configuration (riak.conf) will resolve this issue. While not all users
&gt;&gt; are impacted by this issue, we recommend that all 2.1.0 users upgrade
&gt;&gt; to 2.1.1 which will be released shortly.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; NOTE: This is known to occur for ownership handoff. Investigation as
&gt;&gt; to whether hinted handoff is affected is ongoing and this advisory
&gt;&gt; will be updated when more information is available.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; -Affected Users-
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; All users of 2.1.0 using riak.conf to configure their clusters are
&gt;&gt; potentially impacted. Users that are using app.config and vm.args to
&gt;&gt; configure their clusters are unaffected but should upgrade to 2.1.1
&gt;&gt; upon release.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; To verify whether you are affected, the below command must be run on
&gt;&gt; each node in your cluster:
&gt;&gt; riak config effective | grep handoff.ip
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Affected nodes will have a handoff ip of 127.0.0.1
&gt;&gt; handoff.ip = 127.0.0.1
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; -Impact-
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; This bug impacts vnodes that are in process of handoff. Handoff data
&gt;&gt; will be looped back to the source node during ownership handoff rather
&gt;&gt; than being transferred to the destination node. Once ownership handoff
&gt;&gt; is completed the data is removed from the source node. In the event of
&gt;&gt; significant ownership handoff, which can happen during cluster
&gt;&gt; expansion or contraction, all replicas of an object may be lost. Data
&gt;&gt; loss occurs if all replicas of an object are lost as a result of this
&gt;&gt; configuration issue. Replica loss can be triggered by cluster
&gt;&gt; membership changes or other Riak cluster activity that triggers
&gt;&gt; handoff behavior. Data loss is mitigated as long as at least one
&gt;&gt; replica still exists and the below steps are followed.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; -Mitigation-
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; You can immediately mitigate the issue by setting transfer limit to
&gt;&gt; zero across the cluster by issuing the following on any node:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; riak-admin transfer-limit 0
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Then configure handoff.ip in riak.conf to an external IP address or
&gt;&gt; 0.0.0.0 on all nodes.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Perform a rolling restart of Riak across your cluster to activate the
&gt;&gt; new setting.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; After correcting the configuration and restarting the nodes, you
&gt;&gt; should run Riak KV repair on each cluster member as documented at
&gt;&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/ops/running/recovery/repairing-partitions/
&gt;&gt; to recreate any missing replicas from available replicas elsewhere in
&gt;&gt; the cluster. It is recommended to perform the Riak KV repair in a
&gt;&gt; round-robin fashion on each node of your cluster (node0, node1, node2,
&gt;&gt; etc). Repeat this round-robin repair “n\\_val - 1” times. For example:
&gt;&gt; the default configuration for n\\_val is 3, which means you would run
&gt;&gt; Riak KV repair twice across the entire cluster.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; NOTE: It is important to ensure that you execute in a round-robin
&gt;&gt; fashion: node0, node1, node2 and then repeat.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; A forthcoming 2.1.1 release will provide an updated default configuration.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Questions?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Please open a ticket with Basho if you have any questions about the above 
&gt;&gt; issue.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Cheers,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Tyler Hannan | Director of Technical Marketing
&gt;&gt; Basho Technologies
&gt;&gt; t: @tylerhannan
&gt;&gt; c: 720-280-9216

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

