---
title: "Re: RIAK 1.4.6 - Mass key deletion"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-02-18T08:20:30-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13664"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13663"
author_name: "Matthew Von-Maszewski"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-02-18T08:20:30-08:00
---


Riak 2.0 is coming. Hold your mass delete until then. The "bug" is within 
Google's original leveldb architecture. Riak 2.0 sneaks around to get the disk 
space freed.

Matthew



On Feb 18, 2014, at 11:10 AM, Edgar Veiga  wrote:

&gt; The only/main purpose is to free disk space..
&gt; 
&gt; I was a little bit concerned regarding this operation, but now with your 
&gt; feedback I'm tending to don't do nothing, I can't risk the growing of 
&gt; space... 
&gt; Regarding the overhead I think that with a tight throttling system I could 
&gt; control and avoid overloading the cluster.
&gt; 
&gt; Mixed feelings :S
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On 18 February 2014 15:45, Matthew Von-Maszewski  wrote:
&gt; Edgar,
&gt; 
&gt; The first "concern" I have is that leveldb's delete does not free disk space. 
&gt; Others have executed mass delete operations only to discover they are now 
&gt; using more disk space instead of less. Here is a discussion of the problem:
&gt; 
&gt; https://github.com/basho/leveldb/wiki/mv-aggressive-delete
&gt; 
&gt; The link also describes Riak's database operation overhead. This is a second 
&gt; "concern". You will need to carefully throttle your delete rate or the 
&gt; overhead will likely impact your production throughput.
&gt; 
&gt; We have new code to help quicken the actual purge of deleted data in Riak 
&gt; 2.0. But that release is not quite ready for production usage.
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; What do you hope to achieve by the mass delete?
&gt; 
&gt; Matthew
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Feb 18, 2014, at 10:29 AM, Edgar Veiga  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Sorry, forgot that info!
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; It's leveldb.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Best regards
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On 18 February 2014 15:27, Matthew Von-Maszewski  wrote:
&gt;&gt; Which Riak backend are you using: bitcask, leveldb, multi?
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Matthew
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On Feb 18, 2014, at 10:17 AM, Edgar Veiga  wrote:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; &gt; Hi all!
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; I have a fairly trivial question regarding mass deletion on a riak 
&gt;&gt; &gt; cluster, but firstly let me give you just some context. My cluster is 
&gt;&gt; &gt; running with riak 1.4.6 on 6 machines with a ring of 256 nodes and 1Tb ssd 
&gt;&gt; &gt; disks.
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; I need to execute a massive object deletion on a bucket, I'm talking of ~1 
&gt;&gt; &gt; billion keys (The object average size is ~1Kb). I will not retrive the 
&gt;&gt; &gt; keys from riak because a I have a file with all of them. I'll just start a 
&gt;&gt; &gt; script that reads them from the file and triggers an HTTP DELETE for each 
&gt;&gt; &gt; one.
&gt;&gt; &gt; The cluster will continue running on production with a quite high load 
&gt;&gt; &gt; serving all other applications, while running this deletion.
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; My question is simple, do I need to have any kind of extra concerns 
&gt;&gt; &gt; regarding this action? Do you advise me on taking special attention to any 
&gt;&gt; &gt; kind of metrics regarding riak or event the servers where it's running?
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; Best regards!
&gt;&gt; &gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

