---
title: "Re: Recommended way to delete keys"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-06-03T11:21:56-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16188"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16187"
author_name: "Drew Kerrigan"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-06-03T11:21:56-07:00
---


Another idea for a large-scale one-time removal of data, as well as an
opportunity for a fresh start, would be to:

1. set up multi-data center replication between 2 clusters
2. implement a recv/2 hook on the sink which refuses data from the buckets
/ keys you would like to ignore / delete
3. trigger a full sync replication
4. start using the sync as your new source of data sans the ignored data

Obviously this is costly, but it should have a fairly minimal impact to
existing production users other than the moment that you switch traffic
from the old cluster to the new one.

Caveats: Not all Riak features are supported with MDC (search indexes and
strong consistency in particular).

On Wed, Jun 3, 2015 at 2:11 PM Peter Herndon  wrote:

&gt; Sadly, this is a production cluster already using leveldb as the backend.
&gt; With that constraint in mind, and rebuilding the cluster not really being
&gt; an option to enable multi-backends or bitcask, what would our best approach
&gt; be?
&gt;
&gt; Thanks!
&gt;
&gt; —Peter
&gt;
&gt; &gt; On Jun 3, 2015, at 12:09 PM, Alexander Sicular 
&gt; wrote:
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; We are actively investigating better options for deletion of large
&gt; amounts of keys. As Sargun mentioned, deleting the data dir for an entire
&gt; backend via an operationalized rolling restart is probably the best
&gt; approach right now for killing large amounts of keys.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; But if your key space can fit in memory the best way to kill keys is to
&gt; use bitcask ttl if that's an option. 1. If you can even use bitcask in your
&gt; environment due to the memory overhead and 2. If your use case allows for
&gt; ttls which it may considering you may already be using time bound
&gt; buckets....
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; -Alexander
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; @siculars
&gt; &gt; http://siculars.posthaven.com
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Sent from my iRotaryPhone
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; On Jun 3, 2015, at 09:54, Sargun Dhillon  wrote:
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; You could map your keys to a given bucket, and that bucket to a given
&gt; backend using multi\\_backend. There is some cost to having lots of backends
&gt; (memory overhead, FDs, etc...). When you want to do a mass drop, you could
&gt; down the node, and delete that given backend, and bring it up. Caveat: AAE,
&gt; MDC, nor mutable data play well with this scenario.
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; On Wed, Jun 3, 2015 at 10:43 AM, Peter Herndon 
&gt; wrote:
&gt; &gt;&gt; Hi list,
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; We’re looking for the best way to handle large scale expiration of
&gt; no-longer-useful data stored in Riak. We asked a while back, and the
&gt; recommendation was to store the data in time-segmented buckets (bucket per
&gt; day or per month), query on the current buckets, and use the streaming list
&gt; keys API to handle slowly deleting the buckets that have aged out.
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; Is that still the best approach for doing this kind of task? Or is
&gt; there a better approach?
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; Thanks!
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; —Peter Herndon
&gt; &gt;&gt; Sr. Application Engineer
&gt; &gt;&gt; @Bitly
&gt; &gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; &gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; &gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

