---
title: "Re: Riak CS from Erlang"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-04-01T08:13:28-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13964"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13959"
author_name: "Kelly McLaughlin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-04-01T08:13:28-07:00
---


Lee,

The erlcloud usage in the riak\\_test test modules might be easier to follow. 
Take a look at ./riak\\_test/tests/object\\_get\\_test.erl for a simple example. Also 
take a look at setup/2 in ./riak\\_test/src/rtcs.erl to see how the erlcloud 
configuration record is created. Hope that helps.

Kelly

On March 31, 2014 at 11:47:52 AM, Lee Sylvester (lee.sylves...@gmail.com) wrote:

Hi Kelly,

Thank you for the information.  I took a look at the client test, but as it 
uses an FSM, the continuous looping gave me a headache :-)  Is there a simpler 
test that demos this?  If not, can you highlight the lines that make the calls 
to Riak CS etc?  That part evades me.

Thanks,
Lee



On 31 Mar 2014, at 16:09, Kelly McLaughlin  wrote:

Lee,

We have a fork of erlcloud (https://github.com/basho/erlcloud) we use for 
testing and it can be made to work with your Riak CS cluster with relatively 
little pain. Look in the riak\\_cs repo under client\\_tests/erlang/ercloud\\_eqc.erl 
for some example usage. You'll probably want to set the proxy host and port and 
perhaps the host name if you're not using the default "s3.amazonaws.com". 

Kelly

On March 31, 2014 at 8:44:03 AM, Lee Sylvester (lee.sylves...@gmail.com) wrote:

Hi guys, 

I’m setting up my own Riak CS cluster and wanted to know what the best way to 
interact with that cluster would be from an Erlang app? I’ve taken a look at 
ErlCloud, but it seems I’d need to butcher it to get it to work with a custom 
cluster (not Amazon’s setup). 

Thanks, 
Lee 
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_ 
riak-users mailing list 
riak-users@lists.basho.com 
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

