---
title: "Re: Hard time with Riak 2.0.0pre5 features"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-11-25T18:21:38-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13090"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13033"
author_name: "Mark Phillips"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-11-25T18:21:38-08:00
---


Hi Valter,


On Mon, Nov 25, 2013 at 4:47 PM, Valter Balegas  wrote:

&gt; Hello,
&gt;
&gt; I’m trying to use strong consistency in a riak cluster with nodes in a
&gt; wide-area network, but a timeout fires sometimes, regardless the timeout
&gt; value.
&gt;

How many nodes do you have? And where are they located geographically?



&gt; I tried to increase the timeout of the get operation but it does not seem
&gt; to help. Is there any parameter that i can change to increase the timeout?
&gt; The latency between the nodes is the order of hundreds of milliseconds,
&gt; and, since in the eventual-consistency setting this does not happen (even
&gt; with a bigger read quorum), i’m assuming it has to do with Strong
&gt; consistency parametrization.
&gt; I’m using the most recent erlang client and riak versions and the client
&gt; runs in the same machine as the node i connect to.
&gt;
&gt; {ok, Pid} = riakc\\_pb\\_socket:start\\_link(“NODELINK", 8087).
&gt; {ok,&lt;0.35.0&gt;}
&gt; 2&gt;
&gt; 2&gt; riakc\\_pb\\_socket:get(Pid, {&lt;&lt;"STRONG"&gt;&gt;,&lt;&lt;"ITEMS"&gt;&gt;}, &lt;&lt;"KEY"&gt;&gt;,
&gt; [],5000).
&gt; {error,&lt;&lt;"timeout"&gt;&gt;}
&gt; 3&gt;riakc\\_pb\\_socket:get(Pid, {&lt;&lt;"STRONG"&gt;&gt;,&lt;&lt;"ITEMS"&gt;&gt;}, &lt;&lt;"KEY"&gt;&gt;,
&gt; [],5000).
&gt; {ok,{riakc\\_obj,{&lt;&lt;"STRONG"&gt;&gt;,&lt;&lt;"ITEMS"&gt;&gt;},
&gt; &lt;&lt;"KEY"&gt;&gt;,
&gt; &lt;&lt;107,206,97,96,96,96,204,96,74,97,96,73,45,78,45,204,96,
&gt; 202,99,99,96,1,10,...&gt;&gt;,
&gt; [{{dict,2,16,16,8,80,48,
&gt; {[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],...},
&gt; {{[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],...}}},
&gt; &lt;&lt;"100"&gt;&gt;}],
&gt; undefined,undefined}}
&gt; 4&gt; riakc\\_pb\\_socket:get(Pid, {&lt;&lt;"STRONG"&gt;&gt;,&lt;&lt;"ITEMS"&gt;&gt;}, &lt;&lt;"KEY"&gt;&gt;,
&gt; [],5000000).
&gt; {error,&lt;&lt;"timeout"&gt;&gt;}
&gt; 5&gt; riakc\\_pb\\_socket:get(Pid, {&lt;&lt;"STRONG"&gt;&gt;,&lt;&lt;"ITEMS"&gt;&gt;}, &lt;&lt;"KEY"&gt;&gt;,
&gt; [],5000).
&gt;
&gt; =ERROR REPORT==== 26-Nov-2013::00:34:38 ===
&gt; \\*\\* Generic server &lt;0.35.0&gt; terminating
&gt; \\*\\* Last message in was {req\\_timeout,#Ref&lt;0.0.0.113&gt;}
&gt; \\*\\* When Server state == {state,”NODELINK",
&gt;
&gt; 8087,false,false,undefined,gen\\_tcp,undefined,
&gt; {[],[]},
&gt; 1,[],infinity,undefined,undefined,undefined,
&gt; undefined,100}
&gt; \\*\\* Reason for termination ==
&gt; \\*\\* disconnected
&gt; \\*\\* exception exit: disconnected
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; Valter
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; No dia 21/11/2013, às 11:40, Valter Balegas  escreveu:
&gt;
&gt; Thanks, it works now!
&gt; i wouldn’t realize that bucket type had to be specified as a type. But i
&gt; did say that i didn’t now what that meant. :)
&gt;
&gt; I hope i can do all my experiments now,
&gt; Valter
&gt;
&gt; No dia 20/11/2013, às 21:04, Valter Balegas  escreveu:
&gt;
&gt; Hello,
&gt;
&gt; Here is the sequence of commands:
&gt;
&gt; --Compiled Riak with "make rel" and riak-erlang-client with “make". Erlang
&gt; version R16B02; using the latest version on GitHub or the riak2.0.0.5pre
&gt; package.
&gt;
&gt; ./bin/riak stop
&gt;
&gt; --changed the consensus flag to true on ./etc/riak.conf
&gt;
&gt; ./bin/riak start
&gt;
&gt; .bin//riak-admin bucket-type create bucket '{"props": {"consistent":
&gt; true}}'
&gt; ./bin/riak-admin bucket-type activate bucket
&gt;
&gt; ./bin/riak stop
&gt; ./bin/riak start
&gt;
&gt; on a erlang console, initialized with:
&gt;
&gt; ./erts-5.10.3/bin/erl -pa ../riak-erlang-client/ebin
&gt; ../riak-erlang-client/deps/\\*/ebin
&gt;
&gt; f(Pid), {ok, Pid} = riakc\\_pb\\_socket:start\\_link("localhost", 8087).
&gt; NewA = riakc\\_obj:new(&lt;&lt;"bucket"&gt;&gt;, &lt;&lt;"key"&gt;&gt;, &lt;&lt;"my binary data"&gt;&gt;).
&gt; NewB = riakc\\_obj:new(&lt;&lt;"bucket"&gt;&gt;, &lt;&lt;"key"&gt;&gt;, &lt;&lt;"my other binary data"&gt;&gt;).
&gt; riakc\\_pb\\_socket:put(Pid, NewA, [return\\_body]).
&gt; {ok,{riakc\\_obj,&lt;&lt;"bucket"&gt;&gt;,&lt;&lt;"key"&gt;&gt;,
&gt; &lt;&lt;107,206,97,96,96,96,204,96,202,5,82,28,202,156,255,126,
&gt; 6,245,74,255,202,96,74,...&gt;&gt;,
&gt; [{{dict,2,16,16,8,80,48,
&gt; {[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],...},
&gt; {{[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],...}}},
&gt; &lt;&lt;"my binary data"&gt;&gt;}],
&gt; undefined,undefined}}
&gt; 5&gt; riakc\\_pb\\_socket:put(Pid, NewB, [return\\_body]).
&gt; {ok,{riakc\\_obj,&lt;&lt;"bucket"&gt;&gt;,&lt;&lt;"key"&gt;&gt;,
&gt; &lt;&lt;107,206,97,96,96,96,204,96,202,5,82,28,202,156,255,126,
&gt; 6,245,74,255,202,96,74,...&gt;&gt;,
&gt; [{{dict,2,16,16,8,80,48,
&gt; {[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],...},
&gt; {{[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],...}}},
&gt; &lt;&lt;"my binary data"&gt;&gt;},
&gt; {{dict,2,16,16,8,80,48,
&gt; {[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],...},
&gt; {{[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],...}}},
&gt; &lt;&lt;"my other binary data"&gt;&gt;}],
&gt; undefined,undefined}}
&gt;
&gt; bin/riak-admin bucket-type status bucket
&gt; bucket is active
&gt;
&gt; young\\_vclock: 20
&gt; w: quorum
&gt; small\\_vclock: 50
&gt; rw: quorum
&gt; r: quorum
&gt; pw: 0
&gt; precommit: []
&gt; pr: 0
&gt; postcommit: []
&gt; old\\_vclock: 86400
&gt; notfound\\_ok: true
&gt; n\\_val: 3
&gt; linkfun: {modfun,riak\\_kv\\_wm\\_link\\_walker,mapreduce\\_linkfun}
&gt; last\\_write\\_wins: false
&gt; dw: quorum
&gt; consistent: true
&gt; chash\\_keyfun: {riak\\_core\\_util,chash\\_std\\_keyfun}
&gt; big\\_vclock: 50
&gt; basic\\_quorum: false
&gt; allow\\_mult: true
&gt; active: true
&gt; claimant: 'riak@127.0.0.1
&gt;
&gt; bin/riak-admin bucket-type list
&gt; bucket (active)
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; No dia 20/11/2013, às 17:23, Jordan West  escreveu:
&gt;
&gt; Hi Valter,
&gt;
&gt; Could you provide the code you are using to generate the concurrent
&gt; requests in addition to the output of `riak-admin bucket-type list` and
&gt; `riak-admin bucket-type status ` where  is the name
&gt; of the strongly consistent bucket you created (from one node should be
&gt; sufficient)? I've been using this feature in a personal project and just
&gt; tested on a local cluster using curl and was unable to reproduce (the
&gt; cluster was a bit behind develop but there have been no recent changes to
&gt; the feature).
&gt;
&gt; Cheers,
&gt; Jordan
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Wed, Nov 20, 2013 at 5:30 AM, Valter Balegas  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hello,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I was able to activate strong consistency, but the node keeps generating
&gt;&gt; siblings, when i execute two concurrent writes (Store two objects without
&gt;&gt; vector clock).
&gt;&gt; I tried with the Riak 2.0.0.5pre package and the latest version on the
&gt;&gt; repository. Am i missing anything? i was expecting operations to fail, in
&gt;&gt; this case.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; It seems that the error was caused by my Erlang version. The creation of
&gt;&gt; the bucket type didn’t fail with R16B02.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Valter
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; No dia 20/11/2013, às 03:13, Jordan West  escreveu:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Valter,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; You mentioned you are using a recent develop. Would you be able to pull
&gt;&gt; down any recent changes and update-deps (or build a fresh devrel)? I just
&gt;&gt; tried a fresh clone of develop and was unable to reproduce the same error.
&gt;&gt; I, also, tried with R15B01 (Riak 2.0 is slated to use R16B02 right now).
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Alternatively, you should be able to workaround this by doing a `riak
&gt;&gt; attach-direct` and defining the atom at the erlang shell:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; 1&gt; consistent.
&gt;&gt; consistent
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Jordan
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Tue, Nov 19, 2013 at 3:06 PM, Valter Balegas wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; I can’t create the bucket type:
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; RPC to 'riak@127.0.0.1' failed: {'EXIT',
&gt;&gt;&gt; {badarg,
&gt;&gt;&gt; [{erlang,list\\_to\\_existing\\_atom,
&gt;&gt;&gt; ["consistent"],
&gt;&gt;&gt; []},
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; {riak\\_kv\\_wm\\_utils,erlify\\_bucket\\_prop,1,
&gt;&gt;&gt; [{file,"src/riak\\_kv\\_wm\\_utils.erl"},
&gt;&gt;&gt; {line,393}]},
&gt;&gt;&gt; {riak\\_kv\\_console,
&gt;&gt;&gt; '-bucket\\_type\\_create/2-lc$^0/1-0-',1,
&gt;&gt;&gt; [{file,"src/riak\\_kv\\_console.erl"},
&gt;&gt;&gt; {line,483}]},
&gt;&gt;&gt; {riak\\_kv\\_console,bucket\\_type\\_create,2,
&gt;&gt;&gt; [{file,"src/riak\\_kv\\_console.erl"},
&gt;&gt;&gt; {line,483}]},
&gt;&gt;&gt; {rpc,'-handle\\_call\\_call/6-fun-0-',5,
&gt;&gt;&gt; [{file,"rpc.erl"},{line,203}]}]}}
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; I activated the consensus in riak.conf in the etc dir (find command
&gt;&gt;&gt; seems not to find the pattern anywhere else).
&gt;&gt;&gt; Is there any other way to create the bucket?
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Valter
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; No dia 19/11/2013, às 18:10, Jordan West  escreveu:
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; On Tue, Nov 19, 2013 at 7:33 AM, Valter Balegas wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Strong consistency:
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; How does one activate this? As i understand, either the pb or the http
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; clients do not accept the consistent property.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Using strong consistency in the Tech Preview is a two-step process.
&gt;&gt;&gt; First, turn on the feature in your riak.conf (the following command assumes
&gt;&gt;&gt; you are using a devrel):
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; for d in dev/dev\\*; do sed -e 's/## enable\\_consensus =
&gt;&gt;&gt; true/enable\\_consensus = true/' -i $d/etc/riak.conf; done
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Then re(start) the cluster.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; With the enable\\_consensus=true un-commented and the cluster running
&gt;&gt;&gt; create a strongly consistent bucket type:
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-admin bucket-type create  '{"props": {"consistent":
&gt;&gt;&gt; true}}'
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-admin bucket-type activate 
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; You can create and activate the bucket type without having
&gt;&gt;&gt; enabled\\_consensus=true but both must be done to work with strongly
&gt;&gt;&gt; consistent data.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Once that is done you can make requests, just like you would to
&gt;&gt;&gt; eventually consistent data in Riak, but the semantics will be different.
&gt;&gt;&gt; For example, if you make two PUT requests to the same key, w/ no vector
&gt;&gt;&gt; clock\\*, the second request will fail because the data already exists. More
&gt;&gt;&gt; details on semantics of strongly consistent requests can be found in this
&gt;&gt;&gt; PR: https://github.com/basho/riak\\_kv/pull/710
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Hope that helps get you started,
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Jordan
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; \\* in strong consistency, the "vector clock" is not really a vector
&gt;&gt;&gt; clock. its called such for familiarity, but like any real vector clock
&gt;&gt;&gt; exposed to the client, should be treated like an opaque context.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Details about my environment:
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; -I’m running Mac OSX 10.9
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; -Erlang R15B01
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; -Compiling riak “develop” branch, from basho github
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; -Compiling riak-erlang-client “master” branch, from basho github.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; -recompiled the latest versions of the branches just before writing
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; this email.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Thank you for your help,
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Valter
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

