---
title: "Re: 2i streaming"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-08-16T10:09:53-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12063"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12031"
author_name: "Pavel Kirienko"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-08-16T10:09:53-07:00
---


Hi Reid,

Yeah, pagination is exactly what I was looking for. Awesome.

Pavel.


On Wed, Aug 14, 2013 at 7:56 PM, Reid Draper  wrote:

&gt; This is an old thread, but I figured I'd give it an answer now, since we
&gt; have a much better story in Riak 1.4.x. As you may know, we now support
&gt; result limiting and pagination in 2i. You can read more about it here [1],
&gt; in the 'pagination' section. This will allow you to only buffer `N` results
&gt; at a time, out of a much larger query.
&gt;
&gt; [1] http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/dev/using/2i/
&gt;
&gt; Reid
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Mar 4, 2013, at 7:18 AM, Pavel Kirienko 
&gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Hi everyone,
&gt;
&gt; Is there any way to request a large number of keys through 2i streaming?
&gt; Say, there is index with 10M entries, I want to extract 1M of them.
&gt; Obviously the block request (i.e. all data packed into the single response)
&gt; is not a best idea since it requires a good amount of memory either on
&gt; client and the server.
&gt;
&gt; One can suggest to feed 2i output into the Map/Reduce job with streaming
&gt; output, but this way is not so hot either: it is really slow (our 3-node
&gt; cluster stumbles on 100k keys for a minutes); and sometimes it just isn't
&gt; working (streaming may stop occasionally before all data being kicked out).
&gt; Not to mention that on 1M of keys Map/Reduce job just never starts.
&gt;
&gt; Is it possible to perform 2i queries for large number of keys, or shall I
&gt; use another storage for indexing instead? (like Redis maybe)
&gt;
&gt; Thanks in advance.
&gt;
&gt; Pavel.
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

