---
title: "Re: power outage"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-04-11T20:11:21-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14065"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14056"
author_name: "Brian Sparrow"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-04-11T20:11:21-07:00
---


There is no background process to read all keys in the cluster in this
version of Riak. The Active Anti Entropy(AAE)feature added in future
versions odes precisely this. It notices any replicas that are out of sync
and forces read repair. If the manual repair procedure is not working you
might consider upgrading to 1.4.8(most recent stable release) and letting
AAE take care of the repair.


On Fri, Apr 11, 2014 at 2:09 AM, Gerlach, Sebastian &lt;
sebastian.gerl...@immonet.de&gt; wrote:

&gt; Hi Brian, Hi mailing list,
&gt;
&gt; Is ist possible to read all keys from the cluster an trigger in this way
&gt; a read repay on the failed nodes?
&gt;
&gt; Thanks and best regards
&gt; Sebastian
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Von: Brian Sparrow 
&gt; Datum: Donnerstag, 10. April 2014 20:19
&gt; An: Sebastian Gerlach 
&gt; Cc: riak-users 
&gt; Betreff: Re: power outage
&gt;
&gt; Sebastian,
&gt;
&gt; Those errors are normal following an outage of this sort. Hintfiles will
&gt; be regenerated during the next bitcask merge and any data file that is
&gt; incomplete or has invalid entries will be truncated. This does result in a
&gt; loss of replicas but as long as at least 1 replica of the data is not lost
&gt; the replicas can be repaired by manual repair or read-repair. The manual
&gt; repair procedure is outlined here:
&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riak/1.2.0/cookbooks/Repairing-KV-Indexes/ .
&gt;
&gt; I recommend that you manually repair any partition that discarded data
&gt; file entries but other than that your cluster should be working fine.
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; Brian
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Thu, Apr 10, 2014 at 1:44 PM, Gerlach, Sebastian &lt;
&gt; sebastian.gerl...@immonet.de&gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Dear mailing list,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Our prod riak cluster goes down with an power outage. We restartet riak an
&gt;&gt; found a lot of the following messages:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; [error] &lt;0.22012.0&gt; Hintfile
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; '/var/lib/riak/bitcask/174124218510127105489110888272838406638695088128/142
&gt;&gt; .bitcask.hint' has bad CRC 28991324 expected 0
&gt;&gt; [error] &lt;0.5063.0&gt; Bad datafile entry, discarding(3450/46927 bytes)
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; '/var/lib/riak/bitcask/302576510853663494784356625523292968913142284288/140
&gt;&gt; .bitcask.hint' contains pointer 949927320 13881 that is greater than total
&gt;&gt; data size 949927936
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Our Cluster contains 12 Server.
&gt;&gt; We run version 1.2.0-1 on Debian 6
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; We are not sure if the error are fixed by riak itself. We found an old
&gt;&gt; mailing list entry with the hint to run
&gt;&gt; "riak\\_kv:repair(22835963083295358096932575511191922182123945984)."
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; We also checked the Dokumentaion and found:
&gt;&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riak/1.2.0/cookbooks/Repairing-KV-Indexes/ "&gt;
&gt;&gt; [riak\\_kv\\_vnode:repair(P) || P &lt;- Partitions]."
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Both hints doesn't work on our system.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Have anyone some hints for me.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks a lot
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Sebastian
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

