---
title: "Re: Dangling keys/objects after a batch of sequential inserts (for	going on 3 days)"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-07-21T11:22:38-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11659"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg11658"
author_name: "Siraaj Khandkar"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-07-21T11:22:38-07:00
---



On 07/21/2013 07:24 AM, Russell Brown wrote:&gt; Hi,
&gt;
&gt; On 21 Jul 2013, at 02:09, Siraaj Khandkar  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; I (sequentially) made 146204 inserts of unique objects to a single
&gt;&gt; bucket. Several secondary indices (most with unique values) were set
&gt;&gt; for each object, one of which was "bucket" = BucketName (to use 2i
&gt;&gt; for listing all keys).
&gt;
&gt; There is a special $bucket index for this already, please see the docs
&gt; here http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/dev/using/2i/
&gt;

Yeah... I stumbled on that piece of info in another doc about two days
ago - made me feel both stupid and validated :)

However, it doesn't seem to work for me - I always get: {ok,{keys,[]}}


&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; 6 of the objects appear to have been lost - they're consistently not
&gt;&gt; found by GETs (by key) and are not found by 2i queries to the indices
&gt;&gt; with unique values.
&gt;
&gt; Are you sure they were inserted?

I am sure that the client returned 'ok' on \\_every\\_ insertion in the
batch.


&gt; Was there an error during your batch insert?
&gt;

None. It was a sequential loop matching on 'ok' for every put and
expecting to crash on any error - there were no crashes.


&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; However, the "bucket" index search returns them \\_sometimes\\_.
&gt;
&gt; Oh. Erm. Have you deleted some keys? 2i is essentially an r=1 query.
&gt;

Sort-of. This was a second instance of this batch insertion (a slightly
extended set of keys), the first one was deleted ~6 hours prior to
executing the second one.

At the end of the deletion there \\_were\\_ some tombstones left. Frankly I
do not remember with certainty if there are overlaps between tombstones
from previous delete and the keys in question. In retrospect - it was
big failure on my part not to take note of those.

After the second instance of the set insertion - there were \\_no\\_
more deletions.

So, in summary:

1) Inserted the set
2) Deleted the set
3) 6 hours passed
4) Inserted the set
5) Observed the problem


&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Now, I understand there may be a replication lag, but this state has
&gt;&gt; remained for over 3 days now.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; "What is fucked, and why?" :)
&gt;
&gt; Good question.
&gt;

I was hoping this list would appreciate the reference :)


&gt; Could you provide some more details to help me figure it out: How many
&gt; nodes are you running?

5


&gt; Can you provide an example of the 2i queries you're running?

This is how I am testing it:

 Compare = fun(PID, Bucket) -&gt;
 B = Bucket,
 L1 = riakc\\_pb\\_socket:get\\_index(PID, B, {binary\\_index, 
"bucket"}, B),
 L2 = riakc\\_pb\\_socket:get\\_index(PID, B, {binary\\_index, 
"bucket"}, B),

 io:format("L1: ~b, L2: ~b~n",[length(L1), length(L2)]),
 Diff\\_L1\\_L2 = L1 -- L2,
 Diff\\_L2\\_L1 = L2 -- L1,
 io:format("=== L1 -- L2 ===~n~p~n~n", [Diff\\_L1\\_L2]),
 io:format("=== L2 -- L1 ===~n~p~n~n", [Diff\\_L2\\_L1]),
 Fetch = fun(Key) -&gt;
 case riakc\\_pb\\_socket:get(PID, B, Key) of
 {ok, \\_} -&gt; io:format("FOUND: ~p~n", [Key]);
 {error, \\_} -&gt; io:format("NOT FOUND: ~p~n", [Key])
 end
 end,
 io:format("=== L1 -- L2 ===~n"),
 lists:foreach(Fetch, Diff\\_L1\\_L2),
 io:format("=== L2 -- L1 ===~n"),
 lists:foreach(Fetch, Diff\\_L2\\_L1)
 end.

Which results in differences \\_sometimes\\_, but \\_always\\_ fails on get.


&gt; If this is just a dev cluster, can you verify the keys are present /
&gt; absent using either a range 2i $keys query, or a key list, please?
&gt;

Unfortunately this is prod, so brute-force key list is out of the
question.

Running:
 curl "http://127.0.0.1:8098/buckets/$bucket/index/\\$keys\\_bin/0/z"

Returns:
 {"keys":[]}


\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

