---
title: "Re: [ANN] Riak TS v1.4 is released"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2016-08-29T08:36:18-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg17599"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg17593"
author_name: "Eric Johnson"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2016-08-29T08:36:18-07:00
---


Hey Chris, thanks for the heads up.

We’re looking into issues #2 and #4, but we went ahead and fixed #1 and #3
here . Let us know if
anything else comes up!

On Fri, Aug 26, 2016 at 2:03 PM,  wrote:

&gt; We ran this rolling upgrade yesterday and it seemed to mostly work!
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; A couple problems we encountered:
&gt;
&gt; 1. The command under item 6 on this page
&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riak/ts/1.4.0/setup/upgrading/ did not work for us.
&gt; We had to replace “riak\\_ts” with “riak\\_kv”.
&gt;
&gt; 2. There were some transient errors from our clients about the
&gt; server not supporting CRDTs (specifically sets):
&gt;
&gt; a. Riak::ProtobuffsErrorResponse: Expected success from Riak but
&gt; received 0. `set` is not a supported type
&gt;
&gt; 3. The upgrade instructions weren’t clear about the fact that you
&gt; need to update your riak.conf if you have any non-default settings before
&gt; doing the “riak start” step.
&gt;
&gt; 4. There was a unit change for riak\\_kv.query.timeseries.timeout 
&gt; (previously
&gt; timeseries\\_query\\_timeout\\_ms) in riak.conf that wasn’t clear to us from the
&gt; upgrade instructions. We were under the impression that only the names had
&gt; changed.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; chris
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\*From: \\*riak-users  on behalf of
&gt; Pavel Hardak 
&gt; \\*Date: \\*Thursday, August 25, 2016 at 7:27 PM
&gt; \\*To: \\*"riak-users@lists.basho.com" 
&gt; \\*Cc: \\*Product Team 
&gt; \\*Subject: \\*[ANN] Riak TS v1.4 is released
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Dear Riak users,
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Earlier today we have released Riak TS v1.4. This is well-rounded release,
&gt; combining several new features, number of incremental improvements and bug
&gt; fixes. Please upgrade your Riak TS clusters or if you still did not, take
&gt; it for the spin. Any feedback, good or bad, is welcome. We do listen.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Release notes: http://docs.basho.com/riak/ts/1.4.0/releasenotes/
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; The new and improved features are:
&gt;
&gt; · (NEW) GROUP BY statement can be used in SELECT queries. This allows to
&gt; condense the result set using one of Riak TS aggregation functions. [1]
&gt;
&gt; · (NEW) Users can now use textual date/time representations (per ISO
&gt; 8601) in Riak TS SQL statements, without the need to translate to
&gt; milliseconds before issuing the commands. [2]
&gt;
&gt; · (NEW) Global object expiration (a.k.a. TTL - time to leave) at the
&gt; backend (LevelDB) level allows efficiently remove aged data from Riak TS.
&gt; [3]
&gt;
&gt; · (NEW) Added SHOW TABLES command to list Riak TS tables from Riak
&gt; Shell. This is in addition to riak-admin ‘bucket-type list’, which also
&gt; works. [4]
&gt;
&gt; · (NEW) Added official support for Debian 8 Jessie, dropped Debian 6. [6]
&gt;
&gt; · (IMPROVED) DESCRIBE 

 command now returns quantum information,
&gt; in addition to the columns names, types and primary key. [5]
&gt;
&gt; · (IMPROVED) Fine grained security using Riak TS specific permissions.
&gt; [7]
&gt;
&gt; · (IMPROVED) Rolling upgrade and downgrade to and from Riak TS 1.3.1.
&gt; [8]
&gt;
&gt; · … many documentation and performance improvements.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; [1] http://docs.basho.com/riak/ts/1.4.0/using/querying/select/group-by/
&gt;
&gt; [2] http://docs.basho.com/riak/ts/1.4.0/using/timerepresentations/
&gt;
&gt; [3] http://docs.basho.com/riak/ts/1.4.0/using/global-object-expiration/
&gt;
&gt; [4] http://docs.basho.com/riak/ts/1.4.0/using/querying/show-tables/
&gt;
&gt; [5] \\*http://docs.basho.com/riak/ts/1.4.0/downloads/#debian
&gt; \\*
&gt;
&gt; [6] \\*http://docs.basho.com/riak/ts/1.4.0/using/querying/describe/
&gt; \\*
&gt;
&gt; [7] http://docs.basho.com/riak/ts/1.4.0/using/security/user-management
&gt;
&gt; [8] http://docs.basho.com/riak/ts/1.4.0/setup/upgrading/
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; More info:
&gt;
&gt; · Riak® TS 
&gt;
&gt; · Documentation 
&gt;
&gt; · Basho Blog 
&gt;
&gt; · Downloads 
&gt;
&gt; · Source Code 
&gt;
&gt; Pavel Hardak,
&gt;
&gt; Director of Product Management, Basho Technologies
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com


