---
title: "Re: Riak startup issue"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-01-07T03:32:16-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13362"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13361"
author_name: "John Kavanagh"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-01-07T03:32:16-08:00
---


Hi Alain,

Thanks for the reply ! The exact error message is in the gist mentioned
previously .
I essentially hit the issues references here :
http://comments.gmane.org/gmane.comp.db.riak.user/9102
These looks like packaging issues ,so I nuked the ring dir and Riak would
then start.

Problem solved :-)

Thanks,

John


On Mon, Jan 6, 2014 at 9:23 PM, Alain Rodriguez  wrote:

&gt; Hi John,
&gt;
&gt; What node name are you using in vm.args? If you are using a FQDN, try
&gt; setting it to riak@ instead and see if that resolves the startup
&gt; issue. Either way, what's the exact error being logged by the riak server?
&gt;
&gt; Alain
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Mon, Jan 6, 2014 at 4:14 PM, John Kavanagh  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi all,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I am trying to deploy Riak on fresh nodes via cookbooks that have been
&gt;&gt; fully tested and implemented in another environment and am hitting an issue
&gt;&gt; whereby Riak won't start.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; https://gist.github.com/kavanista/8289711
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Essentially what I am seeing is :
&gt;&gt; \\*\\* System running to use fully qualified hostnames \\*
&gt;&gt; \\*\\* Hostname localhost is illegal \\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I have the node bootstrapped correctly , the hostname is set to be it's
&gt;&gt; FQDN , everything looks fine.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; In my app.config I have (address obfuscated of course)
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; {http, [
&gt;&gt; {"192.168.x.x", 8098},
&gt;&gt; {"127.0.0.1", 8098}
&gt;&gt; ]},
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; This works fine , I listen on 127.0.0.1 to facilitate polling stats etc.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; vm.args uses the nodes FQDN also.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Is there anything obvious here that could be causing this ? I just don't
&gt;&gt; get where it's getting localhost from here.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks !
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; John
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

