---
title: "Re: Yokozuna unpredictable result count"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-02-19T07:07:40-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15744"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15737"
author_name: "Zeeshan Lakhani"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-02-19T07:07:40-08:00
---


Hello Cezary,

Firstly, are you able to retrieve your search result consistently when not 
using doing a mapreduce job? 

To better help out, can you send a gist of the mapreduce code you’re running? 
Thanks.


&gt; On Feb 18, 2015, at 9:13 PM, Cezary Kosko  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; Hi,
&gt; 
&gt; I've got a search index, and I'd like to run mapred job against that index. 
&gt; The thing is, for a search query that should return exactly one result, I 
&gt; sometimes (not always, yet not rarely) get none, i.e. the mapred job returns 
&gt; an empty list instead of, say, a list containing a single object. Did this 
&gt; only happen some time after uploading the data and then was consistently 
&gt; giving the right results, I wouldn't object. However, it's kind of an 
&gt; on-and-off situation - I get proper results, but then for a brief period of 
&gt; time I don't and so on.
&gt; 
&gt; I've read on a solr doc page that specifying a timeAllowed parameter in the 
&gt; query can give it longer to gather results and help, but that can't be 
&gt; specified in a mapred definition, or can it?
&gt; 
&gt; Is there anything else I can look for?
&gt; 
&gt; The data I'm querying is of the CRDT map-of-sets type, should that be of any 
&gt; relevance.
&gt; 
&gt; Kind regards,
&gt; Cezary
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

