---
title: "Re: Riak Search 2.0 Questions"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-07-24T12:43:02-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14548"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14547"
author_name: "Andrew Zeneski"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-07-24T12:43:02-07:00
---


Ryan,

Thank you very much for the detailed explanation! How do you delete an
index? Can I just remove it from the data directory or is that a bad idea?
I think the reload command you provide is what I need right now.

Thanks again!

Andrew


On Thu, Jul 24, 2014 at 12:58 PM, Ryan Zezeski  wrote:

&gt;
&gt; On Jul 24, 2014, at 12:29 PM, Andrew Zeneski 
&gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Been checking out 2.0rc1 and am really excited about the new features (as
&gt; I think most of us are). I had a couple of questions that I couldn't find
&gt; answers to scanning the docs. Totally possible I missed it and if so,
&gt; please feel free to direct me to the proper place.
&gt;
&gt; 1. Is there a way to remove a search index and schema?
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; No, currently you can only store/update a schema.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; 2. Do indexes just "reference" schemas?
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; An index has an associated schema. When the index is created locally on a
&gt; node it retrieves that schema from an internal store built into Riak and
&gt; writes it to the directory specific to that index. The index uses the
&gt; schema stored in its local directory. Updates to the schema are not
&gt; automatically propagated to the local file.
&gt;
&gt; More specifically, if I update a schema will those changes "propagate" to
&gt; all indexes using that schema?
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; No, you will need to either need to delete the index and recreate or
&gt; attach to the Riak console and run the following command:
&gt;
&gt; rp(yz\\_index:reload(&lt;&lt;"index\\_name"&gt;&gt;)).
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; This command will fetch the latest version of the associated schema for
&gt; the index “index\\_name”, overwrite the index’s local schema, and then reload
&gt; that index across the entire cluster.
&gt;
&gt; Why is this all so awkward? Some of the gory details can be found in
&gt; these two issues if you really want to know:
&gt;
&gt; https://github.com/basho/yokozuna/issues/130
&gt; https://github.com/basho/yokozuna/issues/403
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; The reason I ask is I've been experimenting with simple searching and
&gt; found in the logs an error indexing a document due to unknown fields. I
&gt; realized I missed the catch all dynamic field in my schema and updated it.
&gt; After updating I ran the test again (after deleting any existing data) but
&gt; the error persists. Leading me to believe that the schema isn't updating.
&gt; But when I view the schema $RIAK\\_HOST/search/schema/testschema I see the
&gt; updates.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Yes, the schema itself has been updated but, as explained above, it is
&gt; once removed from the index and not automatically reloaded.
&gt;
&gt; -Z
&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

