---
title: "Re: Riak2.0 with Solr Search: index on one node contains not all	entries"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-03-25T09:35:24-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15929"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15928"
author_name: "Zeeshan Lakhani"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-03-25T09:35:24-07:00
---


Ok, no worries.

Also, sometimes, AAE may take a little time to complete the exchanges. 
Definitely read through my responses in 
http://lists.basho.com/pipermail/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com/2015-March/016926.html
 

 if you continue to see issues with Riak Search being out-of-sync.

Thanks.

Zeeshan Lakhani
programmer | 
software engineer at @basho | 
org. member/founder of @papers\\_we\\_love | paperswelove.org
twitter =&gt; @zeeshanlakhani

&gt; On Mar 25, 2015, at 12:27 PM, Michael Weibel  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; Hi Zeeshan,
&gt; 
&gt; Ok, will do that and report back as soon as I have it.. Might take a while 
&gt; though because I first also have to figure out whether I have still the same 
&gt; issue or not.. ;) 
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks!
&gt; Michael
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 2015-03-25 16:56 GMT+01:00 Zeeshan Lakhani  &gt;:
&gt; Hey Michael,
&gt; 
&gt; Ideally, for this “testing" setup, n\\_val=2 would be the effective choice. I’d 
&gt; create a new bucket\\_type/bucket and re-PUT your data in and test search again 
&gt; to be sure.
&gt; 
&gt; Let me know. Thanks.
&gt; 
&gt; Zeeshan Lakhani
&gt; programmer | 
&gt; software engineer at @basho | 
&gt; org. member/founder of @papers\\_we\\_love | paperswelove.org 
&gt; 
&gt; twitter =&gt; @zeeshanlakhani
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On Mar 25, 2015, at 11:02 AM, Michael Weibel &gt; &gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Hi Zeeshan,
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Thanks for your answer.
&gt;&gt; Just to be sure, does your custom schema include the required fields, as 
&gt;&gt; mentioned in the docs: 
&gt;&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/dev/advanced/search-schema/#Custom-Schemas?
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Yes, I double checked that now to make sure, and the schema includes the 
&gt;&gt; required fields.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Are these Riak nodes joined? What’s your ring size, n\\_val value?
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; They run in a cluster, yes. Output of "riak-admin status":
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; ring\\_creation\\_size : 64
&gt;&gt; ring\\_members : ['riak@IPADDRESS','riak@IPADDRESS']
&gt;&gt; ring\\_num\\_partitions : 64
&gt;&gt; ring\\_ownership : &lt;&lt;"[{'riak@IPADDRESS',32},{'riak@IPADDRESS',32}]"&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; rings\\_reconciled : 0
&gt;&gt; rings\\_reconciled\\_total : 33
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; n\\_val is 3, the initial one. According to the docs we should probably either 
&gt;&gt; add another node or reduce it to "2" though..correct? (Sorry, newbie in riak 
&gt;&gt; here :D)
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; How are you querying the Solr nodes to know which node has the data and 
&gt;&gt; which one doesn't? Coverage is R=1, so you would be getting a different 
&gt;&gt; number on some search queries (using the standard 
&gt;&gt; /search/query/?...) if its only on one of the Solr cores.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Yes exactly. That's how I figured out that there's a difference, later on I 
&gt;&gt; queried the separate Solr instances using the solr admin interface itself. I 
&gt;&gt; also then fetched the missing key on both the riak nodes (without going to 
&gt;&gt; solr, just fetching it directly using the riak HTTP API) and they exist on 
&gt;&gt; both nodes. 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Can you also post me a screenshot of your search AAE exchanges, e.g. 
&gt;&gt; `riak-admin search aae-status`? You could look at this thread, 
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/pipermail/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com/2015-March/016926.html
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; ,
&gt;&gt; for answers on how to perform read-repair/repair the AAE tree.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; aae-status is in the .log file attached.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; So you'd propose to perform a read-repair on the AAE tree?
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Best,
&gt;&gt; Michael
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Thanks.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Zeeshan Lakhani
&gt;&gt; programmer | 
&gt;&gt; software engineer at @basho | 
&gt;&gt; org. member/founder of @papers\\_we\\_love | paperswelove.org 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; twitter =&gt; @zeeshanlakhani
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; On Mar 25, 2015, at 6:42 AM, Michael Weibel &gt;&gt; &gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Hi all,
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; I have on a test environment two riak nodes and each of them has solr 
&gt;&gt;&gt; activated which index 3 buckets using a custom schema.
&gt;&gt;&gt; After testing a bit back and forth, I have the case that on one solr node, 
&gt;&gt;&gt; an entry is not in the index (I know in which node though). 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Fetching the specific key in the bucket works however, both nodes have the 
&gt;&gt;&gt; respective entry.
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; 1) How can this happen? I don't see any error/warning in the logs (neither 
&gt;&gt;&gt; solr nor riak logs). 
&gt;&gt;&gt; 2) Is there a possibility to fix this without having to do e.g. a PUT on 
&gt;&gt;&gt; the specific key with the same content in order to update it?
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; I tried to run a repair on the failing node using the guide: 
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riak/1.4.7/ops/running/recovery/repairing-indexes/#Repairing-Search-Indexes
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; When running the repair command on the partitions I received, it gave me 
&gt;&gt;&gt; however a [{, down}, {...}] response, which gives me an 
&gt;&gt;&gt; uncomfortable feeling, but I didn't really figure out yet what this means 
&gt;&gt;&gt; exactly. 
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Thanks a lot for your help :)
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Best,
&gt;&gt;&gt; Michael
&gt;&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com 
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com 
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

