---
title: "Re: Keys that won't disappear from indexes"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-12-04T21:06:25-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13153"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12834"
author_name: "Sean McKibben"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-12-04T21:06:25-08:00
---


This same thing is happening to me, where both $bucket index and my own custom 
indexes are returning keys that have been deleted and I can’t remove them.
I am hoping there is a way to fix this as it is causing significant problems 
for us in production. It seems to be happening with some frequency, and every 
once in a while an index will just go bad completely and either return subsets 
of what it should return (even with a healthy cluster), or keys that have been 
deleted.

I had a case yesterday where $bucket was returning 6 keys that my custom 
all-inclusive index wasn’t returning. They all produced 404s when I tried to 
retrieve a value. I was hoping read repair would repair the index when a 404 
occurred, or at least AAE might pick it up, but as it stands now, is there any 
way corrupted indexes like this can ever get back to normal?

Sean


On Nov 4, 2013, at 9:44 AM, Evan Vigil-McClanahan  wrote:

&gt; Hi Toby.
&gt; 
&gt; It's possible, since they're stored separately, that the objects were
&gt; deleted but the indices were left in place because of some error (e.g.
&gt; the operation failed for some reason between the object removal and
&gt; the index removal). One of the things on the feature list for the
&gt; next release is AAE of index values, which should take care of this
&gt; case. This is really rare, but not unknown. It'd be interesting to
&gt; know how you ended up with so many.
&gt; 
&gt; In the mean time, the only way I can think of to get rid of them
&gt; (other than deleting them from the console, which would require taking
&gt; nodes down and a lot of manual effort), would be to write another
&gt; value that would have the same index, then delete it, which should
&gt; normally succeed.
&gt; 
&gt; I'll ask around to see if there is anything that might work better.
&gt; 
&gt; On Sun, Nov 3, 2013 at 7:40 PM, Toby Corkindale
&gt;  wrote:
&gt;&gt; On 01/11/13 14:04, Toby Corkindale wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Hi,
&gt;&gt;&gt; I have around 5000 keys which just won't die.
&gt;&gt;&gt; No matter how many times I delete them, they still show up in the 2i
&gt;&gt;&gt; $bucket=\\_ index.
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Actually attempting to retrieve the keys results in a not-found - even
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; if I've requested that tombstones be returned.
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; I'm interested to know what is going on here?
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Anyone?
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Should I report this as a bug against 1.4.2?
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com


\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

