---
title: "Re: Is there a better way to make users in Riak CS?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-01-28T14:30:56-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13521"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13520"
author_name: "Hector Castro"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-01-28T14:30:56-08:00
---


Hey David,

There are two approaches that I'm aware of:

1. With Chef, we've automated the steps required to create an
administrative user [0]
2. Use this [1] escript to write a user record to Riak CS with a
specific user account

We are definitely working to make the process of creating
administrative users smoother in the future.

--
Hector

[0] https://github.com/hectcastro/chef-riak-cs-create-admin-user
[1] https://gist.github.com/kellymclaughlin/ca7e98ba638395f640e7

On Tue, Jan 28, 2014 at 4:59 PM, David Stevenson
 wrote:
&gt; It seems like the only way to make the initial admin user in RiakCS is to
&gt; start it up in this "anonymous user creation" mode, create a user, pull the
&gt; credentials out of the response, and then restart it in secure mode. This
&gt; is a problem for us, because we are using BOSH to deploy RiakCS and
&gt; something that actually uses it (and therefore must know the credentials of
&gt; the admin user) at once.
&gt;
&gt; Does anyone have a way to pre-seed an admin user with a pre-determined
&gt; access & secret key? That way all the processes in the system can know in
&gt; advance what the eventual admin user creds will be. Any other ideas? Could
&gt; basho make it possible to pre-seed an admin user with custom credentials in
&gt; advance or is that very difficult?
&gt;
&gt; Thanks guys!
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; -David Stevenson
&gt; Director of Engineering, CF Services
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

