---
title: "Re: rpberrorresp - Unable to access functioning riak node"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2016-11-23T07:48:48-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg17781"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg17780"
author_name: "Luke Bakken"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2016-11-23T07:48:48-08:00
---


Hi Andre,

Please remember to use "reply all" so the entire list can learn from
our communication.

There may be a bug where you aren't getting the text of the
"rpberrorresp" message. What you should do is check the error.log file
on both of your Riak nodes and look at the contents. There may be a
data format issue in the data you are sending to Riak TS

Please run riak-debug and attach the generated archives to this GitHub issue:

https://github.com/basho/riak-dotnet-client/issues/328

On the above issue, please include the following information:

\\* Riak .NET client version
\\* Riak TS version
\\* Table definition you're using
\\* Example data
\\* Example C# code to reproduce the issue (if possible)

Thanks -

--
Luke Bakken
Engineer
lbak...@basho.com


On Wed, Nov 23, 2016 at 7:39 AM, Andre Roman
 wrote:
&gt; Hey Luke,
&gt;
&gt; I wasn't able to push data into tables without either, received same error.
&gt; Added load balancer since the error references a load balancer, even though
&gt; originally there wasn't any in place.
&gt;
&gt; The load balancer I'm using is HAProxy.
&gt;
&gt; Best Regards,
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Andre Roman
&gt; Automation Engineer
&gt; Energy Metrics
&gt; e. andre.ro...@energymetricsllc.com
&gt; www.energymetricsllc.com | LinkedIn | Twitter
&gt;
&gt; -----Original Message-----
&gt; From: riak-users [mailto:riak-users-boun...@lists.basho.com] On Behalf Of
&gt; Luke Bakken
&gt; Sent: Wednesday, November 23, 2016 10:33 AM
&gt; To: A R 
&gt; Cc: riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; Subject: Re: rpberrorresp - Unable to access functioning riak node
&gt;
&gt; Hi Andre,
&gt;
&gt; If you remove the load balancer, does it work?
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Luke Bakken
&gt; Engineer
&gt; lbak...@basho.com
&gt;
&gt; On Tue, Nov 22, 2016 at 10:56 AM, A R  wrote:
&gt;&gt; To whom it may concern,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I've set up a 2 riak ts nodes and a load-balancer on independent machines.
&gt;&gt; I'm able to successfully create tables, list keys and buckets using
&gt;&gt; the C# SDK but am unable to push data in. It returns the following
&gt;&gt; error from
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; "Expected tsputresp, got rpberrorresp, Expected tsputresp, got
&gt;&gt; rpberrorresp, Unable to access functioning Riak node (load balancer
&gt;&gt; returned no nodes)."
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I've configured the nodes/load-balancer as per the installation
&gt;&gt; procedure and was able to successfully connect the nodes, and
&gt;&gt; configure the load-balancer to direct traffic accordingly. May i be
&gt;&gt; missing a setting in the riak.conf to enable writing?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Best Regards,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Andre
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

