---
title: "Re: Implicit calls to ListKeys?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-02-09T21:11:12-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10068"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg10067"
author_name: "Jeremiah Peschka"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-02-09T21:11:12-08:00
---


ListKeys is only invoked during RiakClient.ListKeys,
RiakAsyncClient.ListKeys, RiakClient.DeleteBucket, and
RiakAsyncClient.DeleteBucket

If you're seeing this 2 more times, it could happen because the warning is
issued on both the Trace, Debug, and Console -
https://github.com/DistributedNonsense/CorrugatedIron/blob/master/CorrugatedIron/RiakClient.cs#L612



---
Jeremiah Peschka - Founder, Brent Ozar Unlimited
MCITP: SQL Server 2008, MVP
Cloudera Certified Developer for Apache Hadoop


On Sat, Feb 9, 2013 at 8:48 PM, Kevin Burton wrote:

&gt; There must be another. I am only calling ListKeys and DeleteBucket. Each
&gt; once, so I expect to see this warning twice. Which I do most of the time.
&gt; But occasionally I see this warning 2 or 3 more times. Is it possible that
&gt; there is some kind of recursion going on that triggers this call?\\*\\*\\*\\*
&gt;
&gt; \\*\\* \\*\\*
&gt;
&gt; \\*From:\\* Alexander Moore [mailto:moore.a...@gmail.com]
&gt; \\*Sent:\\* Saturday, February 09, 2013 10:41 PM
&gt; \\*To:\\* Kevin Burton
&gt; \\*Cc:\\* riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; \\*Subject:\\* Re: Implicit calls to ListKeys?\\*\\*\\*\\*
&gt;
&gt; \\*\\* \\*\\*
&gt;
&gt; Hey Kevin,\\*\\*\\*\\*
&gt;
&gt; \\*\\* \\*\\*
&gt;
&gt; It looks like only RiakClient.ListKeys(), RiakClient.ListKeysStream(), and
&gt; RiakClient.DeleteBucket() will give you that warning.
&gt; You shouldn't see it popup from anywhere else in CorrugatedIron. \\*\\*\\*\\*
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,\\*\\*\\*\\*
&gt;
&gt; Alex\\*\\*\\*\\*
&gt;
&gt; \\*\\* \\*\\*
&gt;
&gt; \\*\\* \\*\\*
&gt;
&gt; On Sat, Feb 9, 2013 at 11:19 PM, Kevin Burton 
&gt; wrote:\\*\\*\\*\\*
&gt;
&gt; One more question I have some code that specifically lists the keys in a
&gt; bucket. I am using Corrugated Iron so I get the warning:\\*\\*\\*\\*
&gt;
&gt; \\*\\*\\*\\*
&gt;
&gt; \\*\\*\\* [CI] -&gt; ListKeys is an expensive operation and should not be used in
&gt; Production scenarios. \\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*
&gt;
&gt; \\*\\*\\*\\*
&gt;
&gt; Then because again this is a test/development environment I am explicitly
&gt; removing the bucket. I get this same warning again and from what I
&gt; understand this is to be expected.\\*\\*\\*\\*
&gt;
&gt; So I run this code with different data sets and every once and a while I
&gt; get two or three of these warnings again. Other than ListKeys and
&gt; DeleteBucket what other calls in CorrugatedIron implicitly call ListKeys
&gt; and would trigger generating this warning again?\\*\\*\\*\\*
&gt;
&gt; \\*\\*\\*\\*
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com\\*\\*\\*\\*
&gt;
&gt; \\*\\* \\*\\*
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

