---
title: "Re: Put failure: too many siblings"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2016-06-16T15:56:10-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg17485"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg17453"
author_name: "Vladyslav Zakhozhai"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2016-06-16T15:56:10-07:00
---


Hello.

I see very interesting and confusing thing.

&gt;From my previous letter you can see that siblings count on manifest objects
is about 100 (actualy it is in range 100-300). Unfortunately my problem is
that almost all PUT requests are failing with 500 Internal Server error.

I've tried today set max\\_siblings riak option to 500. And there were
successfull PUT requests but not for long. Now I see in riak logs error
with "max siblings", but actual count of them is 500+ (earlier it was
100-300 as I've mentioned).

Period of time between max\\_siblings=500 and errors in log is about 30
minutes. And I want to point your attention that I've forbid PUT method on
haproxy - frontend for riak cs.



On Mon, Jun 6, 2016 at 1:17 AM Vladyslav Zakhozhai &lt;
v.zakhoz...@smartweb.com.ua&gt; wrote:

&gt; Hi, Luke.
&gt;
&gt; Thank you for your answer. I did not understand you completely about
&gt; transfer-limit. How does it relate to my problem. Transfer limit - is a
&gt; limit of concurrent data transfer from different nodes. Am I wright? You
&gt; mean that riak can handoff one partition from several nodes concurrently?
&gt;
&gt; Now I have transfer-limit 1 on all riak nodes.
&gt;
&gt; But I am not sure that my cluster will be converged ever. All nodes
&gt; experiences low memory and are killed by OOM Killer periodically. I try to
&gt; add new nodes to the cluster but due problem with OOM killer this process
&gt; is very-very slow.
&gt;
&gt; In the official docs I've read:
&gt;
&gt; "Sibling explosion occurs when an object rapidly collects siblings that
&gt; are not reconciled. This can lead to a variety of problems, including
&gt; degraded performance, especially if many objects in a cluster suffer from
&gt; siblings explosion. At the extreme, having an enormous object in a node can
&gt; cause reads of that object to crash the entire node. Other issues include 
&gt; undue
&gt; latency
&gt;  and
&gt; out-of-memory errors."
&gt;
&gt; I mentioned that new nodes in the cluster do not experience such problems
&gt; (I mean out of RAM).
&gt;
&gt; Regarding to siblings maybe your are right, this is manifest object. I can
&gt; recognize key name but not bucket name. But more than 100 siblings on many
&gt; keys is really confused me. Each time I try to PUT some object to Riak via
&gt; Riak CS S3 interface I got errors with siblings.
&gt;
&gt; On Fri, Jun 3, 2016 at 6:43 PM Luke Bakken  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi Vladyslav,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; If you recognize the full name of the object raising the sibling
&gt;&gt; warning, it is most likely a manifest object. Sometimes, during hinted
&gt;&gt; handoff, you can see these messages. They should resolve after handoff
&gt;&gt; completes.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Please see the documentation for the transfer-limit command as well:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riak/kv/2.1.4/using/admin/riak-admin/#transfer-limit
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; Luke Bakken
&gt;&gt; Engineer
&gt;&gt; lbak...@basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Fri, Jun 3, 2016 at 2:55 AM, Vladyslav Zakhozhai
&gt;&gt;  wrote:
&gt;&gt; &gt; Hi.
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; I have a trouble with PUT to Riak CS cluster. During this process I
&gt;&gt; &gt; periodically see the following message in Riak error.log:
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; 2016-06-03 11:15:55.201 [error]
&gt;&gt; &gt; &lt;0.15536.142&gt;@riak\\_kv\\_vnode:encode\\_and\\_put:2253 Put failure: too many
&gt;&gt; &gt; siblings for object OBJECT\\_NAME (101)
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; and also
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; 2016-06-03 12:41:50.678 [error]
&gt;&gt; &gt; &lt;0.20448.515&gt;@riak\\_api\\_pb\\_server:handle\\_info:331 Unrecognized message
&gt;&gt; &gt; {7345880,{error,{too\\_many\\_siblings,101}}}
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; Here OBJECT\\_NAME - is the name of object in Riak which has too many
&gt;&gt; &gt; siblings.
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; I definitely sure that this objects are static. Nobody deletes is,
&gt;&gt; nobody
&gt;&gt; &gt; rewrites it. I have no idea why more than 100 siblings of this object
&gt;&gt; &gt; occurs.
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; The following effect of this issue occurs:
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; Great amount of keys are loaded to RAM. I almost out of RAM (Do each
&gt;&gt; sibling
&gt;&gt; &gt; has it own key or key duplicate?).
&gt;&gt; &gt; Nodes are slow - adding new nodes are too slow
&gt;&gt; &gt; Presence of "too many siblings" affects ownership handoffs
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; So I have several questions:
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; Do hinted or ownership handoffs can affect siblings count (I mean can
&gt;&gt; &gt; siblings be created during ownership of hinted handoffs)
&gt;&gt; &gt; Is there any workaround of this issue. Do I need remove siblings
&gt;&gt; manually or
&gt;&gt; &gt; it removes during merges, read repairs and so on
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; My configuration:
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; riak from basho's packages - 2.1.3-1
&gt;&gt; &gt; riak cs from basho's packages - 2.1.0-1
&gt;&gt; &gt; 24 riak/riak-cs nodes
&gt;&gt; &gt; 32 GB RAM per node
&gt;&gt; &gt; AAE is disabled
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; I appreciate you help.
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

