---
title: "Re: What's the maximum seconds to set index on bucket after creating	the index"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-09-02T08:57:25-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16490"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16488"
author_name: "Dmitri Zagidulin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-09-02T08:57:25-07:00
---


By the way, it's worth pointing out: if you can avoid it, don't set search
indexes on buckets. Use bucket types instead.

Custom bucket properties (like search indexes) are a lot more
resource-intensive to use than bucket type properties. You're going to see
a slowdown for each new custom bucket you create, after a while.

On Wed, Sep 2, 2015 at 11:31 AM, Hao  wrote:

&gt; v. 2.0.4. I think I know what might be causing the wrong. I forgot to add
&gt; the my custom extractor into riak. Will test it out.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt;
&gt; -Hao
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On 09/02/2015 11:36 PM, Alex Moore wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Hao,
&gt;
&gt; What version of Riak are you using?
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; Alex
&gt;
&gt; On Sep 2, 2015, at 11:26 AM, Fred Dushin  wrote:
&gt;
&gt; I apologize, I was wrong about the timeouts -- they are configurable,
&gt; either through the client, or in the advanced config on the Riak server(s).
&gt;
&gt; The timeout gets set in the server here:
&gt;
&gt; https://github.com/basho/yokozuna/blob/2.1.1/src/yz\\_pb\\_admin.erl#L114
&gt;
&gt; This means you can set the timeout in the PB client, as in
&gt;
&gt; riakc\\_pb\\_socket:create\\_search\\_index(Pid, Index, Schema, [{timeout,
&gt; Timeout}, ...])
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; where timeout is in milliseconds (or the atom 'infinity').
&gt;
&gt; cf. http://basho.github.io/riak-erlang-client/
&gt;
&gt; The order of precedence is:
&gt;
&gt; 1. client-defined
&gt; 2. riak config
&gt; 3. default (45 seconds)
&gt;
&gt; -Fred
&gt;
&gt; On Sep 2, 2015, at 8:13 AM, Fred Dushin  wrote:
&gt;
&gt; What is the return value you are getting from
&gt; rick\\_pb\\_socket:create\\_search\\_index? If it's ok, then the Solr cores should
&gt; have been created on all nodes. Otherwise, you should check the logs for
&gt; timeout messages, e.g.,
&gt;
&gt; https://github.com/basho/yokozuna/blob/2.1.1/src/yz\\_index.erl#L443
&gt;
&gt; If you are getting timeouts, instead of sleeping, you should probably
&gt; query your cluster for the search index, along the lines of what is done in
&gt; one of the riak tests, e.g.,
&gt;
&gt; https://github.com/basho/yokozuna/blob/2.1.1/riak\\_test/yz\\_pb.erl#L100
&gt;
&gt; If necessary, you might want to fold over all nodes in your cluster, to
&gt; ensure the index has been propagated to all nodes, and possibly use the
&gt; wait\\_for patterns used in the tests.
&gt;
&gt; Unfortunately, it looks like the internal timeout used to wait for
&gt; propagation of indexes to all nodes is not configurable -- it defaults to
&gt; 45 seconds:
&gt;
&gt; https://github.com/basho/yokozuna/blob/2.1.1/include/yokozuna.hrl#L134
&gt;
&gt; I hope that helps,
&gt;
&gt; -Fred
&gt;
&gt; On Sep 2, 2015, at 6:27 AM, Hao  wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Hi,
&gt;
&gt; What's the maximum seconds to wait after creating an search index and
&gt; before setting it on the bucket?
&gt;
&gt; On my local machine, I only need to wait 1 second, sometimes I feel I
&gt; don't need to wait at all, but on a production server which is basically
&gt; zero traffic, I have to wait about 10 seconds(definitely over 5s) before I
&gt; can set the index on a bucket.
&gt;
&gt; I am using riakc\\_pb\\_socket client. At first I thought something wrong with
&gt; my function to "create" and "set" the index but then when I split the
&gt; process, it's fine. So seems it's the interval in between that matters.
&gt;
&gt; I need to know how long is the maximum because I need to restore a lot of
&gt; buckets and set index on them via a script. I don't care how long it takes
&gt; but I don't want it to miss any index not being set on the bucket.
&gt;
&gt; The exact error on the console when I set the index on a bucket is
&gt;
&gt; &lt;&lt;"Invalid bucket properties: [{search\\_index,\\n
&gt; &lt;&lt;\\"application\\_test\\_player\\_idx does not exist\\"&gt;&gt;}]"&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Hao
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\*1\\* attachments
&gt; signature.asc(1K) download
&gt; 
&gt; preview
&gt; 
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Hao
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

