---
title: "Re: Cleaning old indexes"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-12-11T11:00:32-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15355"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15354"
author_name: "Eric Redmond"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-12-11T11:00:32-08:00
---


You can't remove an index if there is still a bucket referencing it via 
'search\\_index'. You must remove that property from every referring bucket first.

Eric



On Dec 11, 2014, at 10:54 AM, Geoff Garbers  wrote:

&gt; Hey Luke.
&gt; 
&gt; There are actually some legacy items within Riak that still use the global 
&gt; search index - so we haven't yet had a need to remove it. It's good to know 
&gt; that there is a way to remove it though.
&gt; 
&gt; And just a side question - I take it you're able to remove a search index 
&gt; even if there are still objects referencing it, correct?
&gt; 
&gt; Regards,
&gt; Geoff
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; Geoffrey Garbers
&gt; Senior Developer
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; Cell: +27 (0)766 476 920
&gt; Skype: geoff.garbers
&gt; ge...@totalsend.com
&gt; www.totalsend.com
&gt; 
&gt; +1 347-431-0494
&gt; +44 (0)203 519 1082
&gt; +61 (0)3 9111 5760
&gt; +27 (0)21 200 6981
&gt; 
&gt; On Thu, Dec 11, 2014 at 8:28 PM, Luke Bakken  wrote:
&gt; Hi Geoff,
&gt; 
&gt; Are you having issues removing the old "global" index? You should be
&gt; able to delete it this way:
&gt; 
&gt; curl -XDELETE riak-host:8098/search/index/global
&gt; 
&gt; &gt; Is it safe to mess with anything within the Solr admin interface (is there 
&gt; &gt; a possibility of corruption from Riak -&gt; Solr, or vice versa)?
&gt; 
&gt; It's best to leave things alone in production as Riak expects to be
&gt; the sole source of control for Solr
&gt; 
&gt; --
&gt; Luke Bakken
&gt; Engineer / CSE
&gt; lbak...@basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Tue, Nov 18, 2014 at 3:36 AM, Geoff Garbers  wrote:
&gt; &gt; Hey all.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; When our company started out with Riak, there were some choices made with
&gt; &gt; regards to indexing that are now coming back to bite us. Currently,
&gt; &gt; everything in our Riak cluster is being indexed (dynamicField \\* indexed as
&gt; &gt; text\\_general).
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; We've learnt a lot about Riak and Solr since then, and we're in the process
&gt; &gt; now of trying to fix this; indexing the fields we need with the correct data
&gt; &gt; type.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Previously, we had a single search index (called "global") - and everything
&gt; &gt; was indexed under this. This is now split out into separate indexes
&gt; &gt; ("contacts", "lists", "messages", etc); and I've tried to re-index
&gt; &gt; everything - but I don't seem to be able to get rid of the old indexes.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; There are a few things I've tried; and they don't seem to help:
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; 1. Streaming all keys in all buckets, fetching the object, and then putting
&gt; &gt; the object.
&gt; &gt; 2. Streaming all keys in all buckets, fetching the object, deleting the
&gt; &gt; object, and then putting the object back with the same key.
&gt; &gt; 2. Unloading the core in the Solr admin interface (it seems like it gets
&gt; &gt; re-populated by Riak again).
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; In summary, this is what I'm struggling to understand:
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; 1. Is it safe to mess with anything within the Solr admin interface (is
&gt; &gt; there a possibility of corruption from Riak -&gt; Solr, or vice versa)?
&gt; &gt; 2. How do I go about cleaning out old index data, versus simply (what seems
&gt; &gt; to be) creating new index data, without clearing out the old data?
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Any help will really be appreciated!
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Thanks,
&gt; &gt; Geoff
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;
&gt; 
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

