---
title: "Re: How Riak Handle Request?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2017-04-18T06:19:28-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg18160"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg18155"
author_name: "Carlo Pires"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2017-04-18T06:19:28-07:00
---


Fred,

Are you saying that Riak doesn't start erlang runtime in SMP and a machine
with multiple processes will have only one dedicated to each Riak instance?

2017-04-17 23:43 GMT-03:00 Fred Dushin :

&gt; What do you mean by 'process'?
&gt;
&gt; If you mean operating system process, then, No. A Riak instance runs in a
&gt; single OS process. There is a Riak instance per "node" in the cluster,
&gt; where a "node" is a machine, container, etc. Probably what the OMG guys
&gt; used to call a "capsule" (cute) There are typically many nodes in a Riak
&gt; cluster; hence multiple OS processes, but in general it only makes sense to
&gt; run each process on a separate node or machine, because things break.
&gt;
&gt; If you mean a lightweight Erlang process, then yes, there is an Erlang
&gt; process per connection. From that point on, it gets ... complicated.
&gt; There are process corresponding to coordinating finite state machines,
&gt; processes (plural) corresponding to vnodes, and there is a long list of
&gt; processes that run support for all things between. But all of these Erlang
&gt; processes (or "actors") run in a single operating system process, the
&gt; Erlang virtual machine, or abstract machine, if you learned how to computer
&gt; before Java.
&gt;
&gt; Does that help?
&gt;
&gt; -Fred
&gt;
&gt; &gt; On Apr 17, 2017, at 9:19 PM, Jing Liu  wrote:
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Hey,
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; I'm specifically concerned about connection reading, data sending,
&gt; &gt; data encoding and decoding. Is that done by a single process, a
&gt; &gt; fixed-size process pool or does Riak spawns a new process for every
&gt; &gt; incoming request/connection?
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Thanks very much !
&gt; &gt; Jing
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; On Mon, Apr 17, 2017 at 12:36 PM, Christopher Meiklejohn
&gt; &gt;  wrote:
&gt; &gt;&gt; On Sat, Apr 15, 2017 at 2:16 PM, Jing Liu  wrote:
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; Hi, I'm learning Riak. I'm wondering that if this is the case that on
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; each physical node, a single process is reading the connection,
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; decoding the buffer, spawning a new process to process the request and
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; then be able to handle next request from client?
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; Hi Jing,
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; Depending on what you're looking it, it might be handled differently.
&gt; &gt;&gt; Typically, a process pool is used to handle incoming requests, but
&gt; &gt;&gt; processing of the request itself is handled by several processes that
&gt; &gt;&gt; operate concurrently.
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; What specific operation are you referring to?
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; Thanks,
&gt; &gt;&gt; Christopher
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;



-- 
 Carlo Pires
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

