---
title: "Re: Yokozuna and array of JSON documents"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-02-06T15:02:58-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13607"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13606"
author_name: "Srdjan Pejic"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-02-06T15:02:58-08:00
---


Hey Ryan,

Yeah, I figured that out once I got the indexing to work properly. It was a
case of code outpacing the docs, because I was setting the prop yz\\_index
rather than search\\_index.

Thanks for the help. I do have a possible issue who yokozuna and map
reduce, but that's a separate thread.
On Feb 6, 2014 5:54 PM, "Ryan Zezeski"  wrote:

&gt; Hi Srdjan,
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Mon, Feb 3, 2014 at 12:06 PM, Srdjan Pejic  wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; [{"viewer\\_id\\_s"=&gt;"004615eb-5c0e-4c4a-890c-c6fc29e3fc56",
&gt;&gt;&gt; "video\\_time\\_i"=&gt;475, "type\\_s"=&gt;"joined"},
&gt;&gt;&gt; {"viewer\\_id\\_s"=&gt;"635dcd2d-fdeb-46c1-9920-803ccdd6176b",
&gt;&gt;&gt; "video\\_time\\_i"=&gt;522, "type\\_s"=&gt;"joined"},
&gt;&gt;&gt; {"viewer\\_id\\_s"=&gt;"04b3cec7-6f37-4840-b1b6-eff4c16dd273",
&gt;&gt;&gt; "video\\_time\\_i"=&gt;159, "type\\_s"=&gt;"joined"},
&gt;&gt;&gt; {"viewer\\_id\\_s"=&gt;"6ce3da5f-b598-4b1c-abf0-38ba92fa15fb",
&gt;&gt;&gt; "video\\_time\\_i"=&gt;393, "type\\_s"=&gt;"upvote"}]
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; My question to you is how can I search this array of documents through
&gt;&gt; Yokozuna/Solr? Currently, I get 0 results back, which I suspect is because
&gt;&gt; the actual JSON data is nested in an array and Yokozuna doesn't index that
&gt;&gt; in an expected way.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Assuming you are using the default schema, the issue is that you are using
&gt; non multi-valued fields and thus this data is failing to index. If you
&gt; check your console.log you should see errors with the string "multiple
&gt; values encountered for non multiValued field" in them. Try changing your
&gt; field names to the following:
&gt;
&gt; viewer\\_id\\_s =&gt; viewer\\_id\\_ss
&gt; video\\_time\\_i = video\\_time\\_is
&gt; type\\_s =&gt; type\\_ss
&gt;
&gt; -Z
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

