---
title: "Re: Import big data to Riak"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-10-29T09:04:07-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12793"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12792"
author_name: "Georgi Ivanov"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-10-29T09:04:07-07:00
---


On Tuesday 29 October 2013 16:50:25 Rune Skou Larsen wrote:
&gt; Den 29-10-2013 16:32, Georgi Ivanov skrev:
&gt; &gt; Hi and thank you for the reply. My comment follow:
&gt; &gt;&gt; Your tests are not close to what you are going to have in production
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; My tests are exactly what we will have in production. 1 node or in best
&gt; &gt; case 2 nodes.
&gt; &gt; We don't care about durability here.
&gt; 
&gt; If you don't care about durability, why do you want multiple copies of
&gt; each object? I.e. why not just keep n=1?
The only reason is that if the HW dies we will have to import the data again 
.. which takes like one week.

That's why i would prefer 2 nodes setup
&gt; 
&gt; &gt; Our request per second will be extremely
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; low too(300 per day ?)
&gt; &gt; Also we use 2i indexes.
&gt; 
&gt; If you want to be able to find all your indexed objects with 2i, then
&gt; don't increase the n-value with data in a bucket. This will change the
&gt; way 2i looks for your data by skipping partitions, so you won't see all
&gt; the objects until AAE has completed establishing redundancy.
&gt; 
&gt; Consider checking out Yokozuna for searching instead of 2i.
Is it stable enough ?
Form the website :
NOTICE: Yokozuna is in alpha stage. It is under active development. Breaking 
changes could occur at any moment. In a future release it will replace Riak 
Search.

2i indexes are not critical part tho.

We just want to be able to fetch keys fast from riak ( with low cuncurrency )
&gt; 
&gt; Rune,
&gt; Trifork
&gt; 
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com


\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

