---
title: "Re: Riak Data-UI"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-02-11T09:54:09-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10087"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg10086"
author_name: "Christopher Meiklejohn"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-02-11T09:54:09-08:00
---


Hi Chad,

First off, let me apologize for my delayed reply. The blizzard caused me to be 
away from my computer a bit longer than I would have liked to. ;)

I'm in complete agreement with you regarding the roadmap and a document 
assisting people in putting together a development environment and contributing.

I'm going to be working today to put together a contributors document on Riak 
Control and will post back to the list once it's been completed. In regards to 
the roadmap, once we decide which features will be targeted for the next 
release, I'll have issues created for each of these on the GitHub project, 
which will be publicly visible.

Thanks for being part of the community, and do not hesitate to contact me (on 
list preferably, for the benefit of the community) if you have any further 
questions or feedback.

- Chris

-- 
Christopher Meiklejohn
Software Engineer
Basho Technologies, Inc.



On Monday, February 11, 2013 at 9:27 AM, Chad Engler wrote:

&gt; Just bumping this, I think the most important part is if there is a roadmap, 
&gt; or a way to get involved. Object browsing and disk/merge stats are important 
&gt; features that would be really helpful and if there are docs on how we can get 
&gt; started contributing to Riak Control, that would be great.
&gt; 
&gt; -Chad
&gt; 
&gt; From: Ian Ha [mailto:i...@blutrumpet.com] 
&gt; Sent: Thursday, February 07, 2013 10:09 AM
&gt; To: Chad Engler
&gt; Cc: Christopher Meiklejohn; riak-users@lists.basho.com 
&gt; (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
&gt; Subject: Re: Riak Data-UI
&gt; 
&gt; Also: Is there an ETA on Riak Control?
&gt; 
&gt; On Thu, Feb 7, 2013 at 10:08 AM, Ian Ha  (mailto:i...@blutrumpet.com)&gt; wrote:
&gt; +1.
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; Developing a comprehensive admin console would be great.
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; I would add merge statistics to Chad's feature requests. Would be nice to see 
&gt; who how much disk space is saved during merges, which merge/threshold 
&gt; triggers were hit, and possible disk usage at that time.
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Wed, Feb 6, 2013 at 2:21 PM, Chad Engler  (mailto:chad.eng...@patlive.com)&gt; wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; &gt; Some of my favorite features of Futon were the ability to edit the 
&gt; &gt; configuration of the server from the web interface, check job status 
&gt; &gt; (compaction, view indexing, etc), and used almost all the time was the 
&gt; &gt; overview to see data size and number of documents:
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; This little table was the best because I could immediately see who is using 
&gt; &gt; what, how many documents are there (many times to make sure the count is 
&gt; &gt; going up at a rate that it should be); and of course I could run 
&gt; &gt; map-reduces in there as well, but I understand that works a bit differently 
&gt; &gt; in Riak.
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; Some other nice-to-haves would be:
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; · Paged-Object browser
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; o You can jump to a single value if you know the key
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; o Links can be clicked through to view the different linked values
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; · Create/Delete/Modify buckets and bucket attributes
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; · Graphs for stats
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; o I'm not sure if history for the /stats call is saved somewhere so I'm not 
&gt; &gt; sure if this is possible without a little overhead
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; o Right now I use the munin plugins, but I'm not sure if I get the full 
&gt; &gt; benefit of all the stats in there 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; · More intelligent log viewer
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; o Erlang logs are pretty nasty if you aren't into the language, it would be 
&gt; &gt; nice to have a more "parsed" view into what an error actually \\*means\\*
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; · Love the memory usage, and ring partition usage but some disk stats would 
&gt; &gt; be nice
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; o On the node list it would be nice to see disk space usage and/or iops as 
&gt; &gt; well
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; I wouldn't mind contributing to the project, I just don't see a file on 
&gt; &gt; "contributing", or the roadmap for Riak Control, or a backlog, or anything 
&gt; &gt; like that so if I wasn't sure where to spend time if I was to.
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; -Chad
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; -----Original Message-----
&gt; &gt; From: Christopher Meiklejohn [mailto:cmeiklej...@basho.com] 
&gt; &gt; Sent: Wednesday, February 06, 2013 2:07 PM
&gt; &gt; To: Chad Engler
&gt; &gt; Cc: riak-users@lists.basho.com (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
&gt; &gt; Subject: Re: Riak Data-UI
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; Hi Chad, 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; We decided to focus our development on Riak Control moving forward on 
&gt; &gt; administration features, specifically understanding how your cluster is 
&gt; &gt; performing, managing node addition and removal and visualizing distribution 
&gt; &gt; of data throughout the ring.
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; However, I'd be very interested in hearing which features of Futon you find 
&gt; &gt; most useful and what you're looking for in a UI for Riak.
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; Thanks!
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; - Chris 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; -- 
&gt; &gt; Christopher Meiklejohn
&gt; &gt; Software Engineer
&gt; &gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; On Wednesday, February 6, 2013 at 2:02 PM, Chad Engler wrote:
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; Hey guys,
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; I've found that with CouchDB an interface like Futon is extremely 
&gt; &gt; &gt; helpful. I understand that Riak Control was going to have object-browsing 
&gt; &gt; &gt; features, but they have been pushed-back and/or abandoned. Is there a 
&gt; &gt; &gt; data browser out there that is easy to use and provides features similar 
&gt; &gt; &gt; to Futon? I've looked at Rekon, and it just isn't very useful IMO.
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; Any pointers would be appreciated.
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; Thanks,
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; Chad Engler
&gt; &gt; &gt; Telephony Programmer
&gt; &gt; &gt; PATLive
&gt; &gt; &gt; 1.800.775.7790 x746 (tel:1.800.775.7790%20x746)
&gt; &gt; &gt; chad.eng...@patlive.com (mailto:chad.eng...@patlive.com) 
&gt; &gt; &gt; (mailto:chad.eng...@patlive.com)
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; Hosted Communications | Friendly Service www.patlive.com 
&gt; &gt; &gt; (http://www.patlive.com) (http://www.patlive.com/)
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; &gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com) 
&gt; &gt; &gt; (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
&gt; &gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com




\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

