---
title: "Re: ring resizing feature?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-09-19T06:46:57-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12325"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12319"
author_name: "pseudo-nyme"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-09-19T06:46:57-07:00
---


Dear Alexander, dear Jordan,

Both of your answers proved very helpful, thank you very much. Glad to see an 
active mailing list working.

All the best,
PN



&gt; Message du 19/09/13 05:34
&gt; De : "Alexander Sicular" 
&gt; A : "pseudo-n...@laposte.net" 

&gt; Copie à : "riak-users@lists.basho.com" 
&gt; Objet : Re: ring resizing feature?
&gt;

&gt; That's about the rights of it. As I was reading your message I did some quick 
&gt; math and sure enough you already put that same number down. I've heard told 
&gt; that the max size for any Erlang network, of which Riak is most assuredly, is 
&gt; 200 Erlang VM's. Extrapolating from there, considering that I've also heard 
&gt; told that a good sizing rule of thumb is 10 vnodes per node, you find 
&gt; yourself with ~2000 vnodes. Accounting for another wives' tale that the ring 
&gt; size should be powers of 2, 2048 looks to be the upper bound. 
&gt; 
&gt; Wives' tales, rumors and general misinformation aside, I've not tested those 
&gt; numbers in any way whatsoever but I would love to see an EC2 script give it a 
&gt; shot. 
&gt; 
&gt; -Alexander
&gt; 
&gt; @siculars
&gt; http://siculars.posthaven.com
&gt; 
&gt; Sent from my iRotaryPhone
&gt; 
&gt; On Sep 18, 2013, at 3:44, pseudo-n...@laposte.net wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; &gt; I have seen mentioned that 2048 and higher could importantly increase the 
&gt; &gt; volume of gossiping, what is your experience with it?
&gt; 

Une messagerie gratuite, garantie à vie et des services en plus, ça vous tente ?
Je crée ma boîte mail www.laposte.net

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

