---
title: "Re: Download stops at certain megabyte boundary (RiakCS)"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-09-06T13:32:54-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12204"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12191"
author_name: "Seth Thomas"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-09-06T13:32:54-07:00
---


Martin,This may not be a silver bullet for this issue but as far as version compatibility between Riak and Riak CS goes we have a chart here:http://docs.basho.com/riakcs/latest/cookbooks/Version-Compatibility/I'd highly recommend upgrading your Riak CS as there are some known issues with the 1.3.x series running against Riak 1.4.x -- Seth Thomas On September 6, 2013 at 1:08:43 PM, Martin Alpers (martin-alp...@web.de) wrote: Thanks Shino for your reply.
I could slap myself for failing to look at the logs at all.
Altough I did not get a clue from this anyway, a nonempty crashlog is in itself a hint.
&gt; &gt; \\* downloading from the frist node stopped at exactly 3MB, i.e. 3145728 bytes
&gt; &gt; \\* downloading from the second node stopped at exactly 22MB
&gt; &gt; [snip]
&gt; 
&gt; I also tried your URL and found sudden stop at MB boundary.
&gt; Could you please add some information:
&gt; 
&gt; - Riak version
1.4.1-1
&gt; - Riak CS version
1.3.1-1

I read a few days ago a new version is available.
Could I just upgrade or do I have do disassemble the cluster, or anything of that kind?
&gt; - app.config and vm.args of Riak
Both files from the first attached with this mail, in the archive config.tar.gz
Respective files from other nodes differ only in two IPs and -name, says GNU diff.
&gt; - app.config and vm.args of Riak CS
See my comments on the Riak files
&gt; - log of Riak and Riak CS if there is output around download
I created a tar archive with messages from Riak CS only because Riak itself did not generate any messages around that time.
error.log is not included because each line there is found in console.log as well. (I diff'ed them.)
(I trimmed surrounding messages generated by the garbage collector once every 15 minutes, severity "info".)
See attachment get-logs.tar.gz
&gt; &gt; I have another problem that might or might not be related, and is described much easier:
&gt; &gt; s3cmd ls s3://abc
&gt; &gt; WARNING: Retrying failed request: /?delimiter=/ ('')
&gt; 
&gt; Log might be useful also for this issue.
Again console.log and error.log differ only in garbage collection lines, so I will include error.log.
In this case, both console.log and error.log are appended two lines; they are saved in riak.log.
See attachment mb-logs.tar.gz
&gt; &gt; One remaining question:
&gt; &gt; root@riak3:~# riak-admin diag
&gt; &gt; ...
&gt; &gt; ["sh: 1: exec: sysctl: not found"],
&gt; 
&gt; It may be better to separate this from above ones ;)
&gt; Would you file this issue at https://github.com/basho/riak/issues ?
Certainly. Thanks for the hint.
-- 
Greetings, Martin Alpers
--
martin-alp...@web.de
Mobile: 0176/66185173, but I prefer typing to talking (:
Jabber: martin.alp...@jabber.org
My mails are signed using GPG to verify their origin; request my public key (10216CFB).
See also: http://apps.opendatacity.de/stasi-vs-nsa/
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

