---
title: "Re: RFC: Let's Make Riak-Core Easier to Use"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-10-29T17:26:34-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12797"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12796"
author_name: "Konstantin Kalin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-10-29T17:26:34-07:00
---


I have built a production like prototype using riak-core. My major issue was 
luck of documentation (out-dated or missing aspects). So I spent about 5-7 days 
in reading source code and writing tests. I think a simple sequence digram of 
hinted hand-off would answer on many my questions. Please let me know if you 
want to chat over phone to get more details. I'm in Bay area also. 

Thank you,
Konstantin. 

On Oct 29, 2013, at 5:13 PM, Sam Elliott wrote:

&gt; Hey Riak-Users (and Riak-Core)
&gt; 
&gt; Some time ago, Basho released riak\\_core as a framework for building 
&gt; distributed applications [1].
&gt; One of the key pieces of guidance that was given at the time was that you 
&gt; should use the features
&gt; of riak\\_kv if your app needed to do any persistence. With the new features 
&gt; we'll be releasing in
&gt; 2.0 [2], we want to make riak\\_core the best toolkit for building complex 
&gt; distributed applications
&gt; with both CP and AP semantics.
&gt; 
&gt; As I see it, the main thing that is preventing most people from writing their 
&gt; own riak\\_core
&gt; application is that there's not an API that allows people to easily do so. 
&gt; There's a basic internal
&gt; KV client at the moment, but there are some features that it doesn't cover.
&gt; 
&gt; Post-RICON (and almost certainly after the 2.0 release), I'm going to focus 
&gt; on making riak\\_core
&gt; applications really easy to make, and riak\\_kv easy to use from a riak\\_core 
&gt; application.
&gt; 
&gt; I'd love any feedback that you all have. How can we improve the current APIs? 
&gt; How can we make it
&gt; really easy for people to create riak\\_core apps? How can we nicely expose the 
&gt; newest features of
&gt; riak\\_kv for people to use in their riak\\_core applications?
&gt; 
&gt; Bonus points for feedback from anyone who has built and run a riak\\_core 
&gt; application in production.
&gt; 
&gt; Sam
&gt; 
&gt; PS: I have some swag to give to anyone who's helpful
&gt; 
&gt; [1]: http://basho.com/where-to-start-with-riak-core/
&gt; [2]: http://basho.com/introducing-riak-2-0/
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; -- 
&gt; Sam Elliott
&gt; Engineer
&gt; sam.elli...@basho.com
&gt; --
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com


\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

