---
title: "Re: Object not found after successful PUT on S3 API"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2017-03-06T11:31:03-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg18066"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg18065"
author_name: "Daniel Miller"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2017-03-06T11:31:03-08:00
---


Hi Luke,

I do not have an advanced.config file since I switched to leveldb storage
backend. Generated configs attached.

Hopefully not relevant, the data root is on an ecryptfs volume.

On Mon, Mar 6, 2017 at 1:23 PM, Luke Bakken  wrote:

&gt; Hi Daniel -
&gt;
&gt; Did you forget to include the advanced.config file in your archive of
&gt; configuration files? I only see three \\*.conf.j2 files. The reason I
&gt; ask is that the following settings are critical to Riak CS functioning
&gt; correctly:
&gt;
&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riak/cs/2.1.1/cookbooks/configuration/
&gt; riak-for-cs/#setting-up-the-proper-riak-backend
&gt;
&gt; I realize you have replaced the "be\\_blocks" backed with leveldb, but I
&gt; would like to confirm that you have the other settings.
&gt;
&gt; In fact it would be best to archive the generated.configs directory
&gt; from one of your Riak nodes to include here.
&gt;
&gt; Thanks
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Luke Bakken
&gt; Engineer
&gt; lbak...@basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Mon, Mar 6, 2017 at 7:07 AM, Daniel Miller  wrote:
&gt; &gt; I recently had another case of a disappearing object. This time the
&gt; object
&gt; &gt; was successfully PUT, and (unlike the previous cases reported in this
&gt; &gt; thread) for a period of time GETs were also successful. Then GETs started
&gt; &gt; 404ing for no apparent reason. There are no errors in the logs to
&gt; indicate
&gt; &gt; that anything unusual happened. This is quite disconcerting. Is it normal
&gt; &gt; that Riak CS just loses track of objects? At this point we are using CS
&gt; as
&gt; &gt; primary object storage, meaning we do not have the data stored in another
&gt; &gt; database so it's critical that the data is not randomly lost
&gt;


generated.configs.tbz
Description: Binary data
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

