---
title: "Re: Is Riak dead?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2017-07-13T11:58:15-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg18336"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg18329"
author_name: "lloyd"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2017-07-13T11:58:15-07:00
---



Hmmm--- I wonder if anyone has given thought to a conference focused on the 
future of open-source Riak?
 
I'm sure there are many good ideas out there re: roadmap and governance.
 
It's just too great not to be worth deep thought and prudent action.
 
All the best,
 
LRP
 
 
-----Original Message-----
From: "Russell Brown" 
Sent: Thursday, July 13, 2017 12:40pm
To: "Senthilkumar Peelikkampatti" 
Cc: "riak-users" 
Subject: Re: Is Riak dead?



Hi Senthilkumar,
No Riak is not dead. It’s parent company, Basho is dead. And they kept the 
keys. There are numerous forks that are being worked on. Hopefully something 
that is a canonical, community backed fork will emerge. Past mailing list posts 
show strong support from large commercial and govt. organisations. Riak is open 
source and will continue to be critical infrastructure for numerous 
organisation in its niche for some time.

There are also a few support organisations springing up, as well as the 
existing partners (Erlang Solutions, Trifork etc.) If you’re asking me, this 
could be a very good thing for Riak in the medium to long term. It and it’s 
users and community were served very badly by Basho these last couple of years. 
It’s a little trodden under, but no way dead. Give it a little time to bounce 
back.

Cheers

Russell


On 11 Jul 2017, at 08:15, Senthilkumar Peelikkampatti  
wrote:

&gt; Is Riak dead? No new activities on Riak GitHub repo. 
&gt; 
&gt; https://github.com/basho/riak\\_kv/pulse/monthly
&gt; https://github.com/basho/riak/pulse/monthly
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; Senthil
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com


\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

