---
title: "Re: Getting all the Keys"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-04-25T09:40:20-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10966"
author_name: "n6mac41717"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-04-25T09:40:20-07:00
---


I know it's been over two years since this post, and I'm wondering if the
latest version of Riak has made improvements to list keys--I tried the query
with "keys=true" and I didn't seem to have TSA/octomom-related wait times.

I was originally hoping that I could get a list of keys via the RESTful API
which led me to this thread. In other words, a GET url/bucket/key will
indeed return what I shoved into the bucket at that key, but I was hoping
that a GET url/bucket (I guess to be truly RESTful, I should make the bucket
plural) would return the keys.

Thoughts?

Thanks in advance, Chuck


Alexander Sicular wrote
&gt; Hi Thomas,
&gt; 
&gt; This is a topic that has come up many times. Lemme just hit a couple of
&gt; high notes in no particular order:
&gt; 
&gt; - If you must do a list keys op on a bucket, you must must must use
&gt; "?keys=stream". True will block on the coordinating node until all nodes
&gt; return their keys. Stream will start sending keys as soon as the first
&gt; node returns.
&gt; 
&gt; - "list keys" is one of the most expensive native operations you can
&gt; perform in Riak. Not only does it do a full key scan of all the keys in
&gt; your bucket, but all the keys in your cluster. It is obnoxiously expensive
&gt; and only more so as the number of keys in your cluster grows. There has
&gt; been discussions about changing this but everything comes with a cost
&gt; (more open file descriptors) and I do not believe a decision has been made
&gt; yet.
&gt; 
&gt; -Riak is in no way a relational system. It is, in fact, about as opposite
&gt; as you can get. Incidentally, "select \\*" is generally not recommended in
&gt; the Kingdom of Relations and regarded as wasteful. You need a bit of a
&gt; mind shift from relational world to have success with nosql in general and
&gt; Riak in particular.
&gt; 
&gt; -There are no native indices in Riak. By default Riak uses the bitcask
&gt; backend. Bitcask has many advantages but one disadvantage is that all keys
&gt; (key length + a bit of overhead) must fit in ram. 
&gt; 
&gt; -Do not use "?keys=true". Your computer will melt. And then your face.
&gt; 
&gt; -As of Riak 0.14 your m/r can filter on key name. I would highly recommend
&gt; that your data architecture take this into account by using keys that have
&gt; meaningful names. This will allow you to not scan every key in your
&gt; cluster.
&gt; 
&gt; -Buckets are analogous to relational tables but only just. In Riak, you
&gt; can think of a bucket as a namespace holder (it is used as part of the
&gt; default circular hash function) but primarily as a mechanism to
&gt; differentiate system settings from one group of keys to the next. 
&gt; 
&gt; -There is no penalty for unlimited buckets except for when their settings
&gt; deviate from the system defaults. By settings I mean things like hooks,
&gt; replication values and backends among others.
&gt; 
&gt; -One should list keys by truth if one enjoys sitting in parking lots on
&gt; the freeway on a scorching summers day or perhaps waiting in a TSA line at
&gt; your nearest international point of embarkation surrounded by octomom
&gt; families all the while juggling between the grope or the pr0n slideshow.
&gt; If that is for you, use "?keys=true".
&gt; 
&gt; -Virtually everything in Riak is transient. Meaning, for the most part
&gt; (not including the 60 seconds or so of m/r cache), there is no caching
&gt; going on in Riak outside of the operating system. Ie. your subsequent
&gt; queries will do more or less the same work as their predecessors. You need
&gt; to cache your own results if you want to reuse them... quickly.
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; Oh, there's more but I'm pretty jelloed from last night. Welcome to the
&gt; fold, Thomas. Can I call you Tom?
&gt; 
&gt; Cheers,
&gt; -Alexander Sicular
&gt; 
&gt; @siculars
&gt; 
&gt; On Jan 22, 2011, at 10:19 AM, Thomas Burdick wrote:
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; I've been playing around with riak lately as really my first usage of a
&gt;&gt; distributed key/value store. I quite like many of the concepts and
&gt;&gt; possibilities of Riak and what it may deliver, however I'm really stuck
&gt;&gt; on an issue.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Doing the equivalent of a select \\* from sometable in riak is seemingly
&gt;&gt; slow. As a quick test I tried...
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; http://localhost:8098/riak/mytable?keys=true
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Before even iterating over the keys this was unbearably slow already.
&gt;&gt; This took almost half a second on my machine where mytable is completely
&gt;&gt; empty! 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; I'm a little baffled, I would assume that getting all the keys of a table
&gt;&gt; is an incredibly common task? How do I get all the keys of a table
&gt;&gt; quickly? By quickly I mean a few milliseconds or less as I would expect
&gt;&gt; of even a "slow" rdbms with an empty table, even some tables with 1000's
&gt;&gt; of items can get all the primary keys of a sql table in a few
&gt;&gt; milliseconds.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Tom Burdick
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; 

&gt; riak-users@.basho

&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list

&gt; riak-users@.basho

&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com





--
View this message in context: 
http://riak-users.197444.n3.nabble.com/Getting-all-the-Keys-tp2308764p4027757.html
Sent from the Riak Users mailing list archive at Nabble.com.

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

