---
title: "Re: Weird RIAK behavior"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-12-29T07:28:11-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15426"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15407"
author_name: "Claudio Cesar Sanchez Tejeda"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-12-29T07:28:11-08:00
---


Hi,

The clocks weren't synchronized because the servers don't have direct
access to internet or a NTP server. They can use a http proxy, so I
installed and configured htpdate on them in order to maintain their
clocks synchronized.

The issue was resolved by synchronizing the clocks.

Thanks!

On Tue, Dec 23, 2014 at 6:00 AM, Sargun Dhillon  wrote:
&gt; It sounds like allow\\_mult is off.
&gt; 1. What's your last\\_write\\_wins set to?
&gt; 2. Are the clocks on your nodes accurately synced to one another (if
&gt; they're all NTP peers from one another, what's the deltas?)? I know
&gt; drift is a common problem in virtual machines on VMWare -- or clocks
&gt; plain lying.
&gt; 3. Are you using vector clocks for all operations?
&gt; 4. Are you making concurrent updates?
&gt;
&gt; Are you familiar with AP Riak, the consistency model, and conflict
&gt; resolution? There is some excellent documentation here:
&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riak/2.0.2/dev/using/conflict-resolution/
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Mon, Dec 22, 2014 at 7:15 PM, Claudio Cesar Sanchez Tejeda
&gt;  wrote:
&gt;&gt; Hi,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Sorry, I forgot to mention that it is RIAK 1.4.10. They are configured
&gt;&gt; with multibackend. We are using, memory, bitcask and elevelDB
&gt;&gt; backends.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On the buckets where we are having issues, the siblings are disabled
&gt;&gt; (allow\\_multi = false).
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Regards.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Mon, Dec 22, 2014 at 9:17 PM, Sargun Dhillon  wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt; What versions of Riak are you using? And are these CRDT sets?
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Sent from my iPhone
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; On Dec 22, 2014, at 16:04, Claudio Cesar Sanchez Tejeda 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;  wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; I'm a sysadmin and I managing 5 cluster of RIAK:
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; - two of them are LXC containers on the same physical machine (3 nodes
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; per cluster)
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; - one of them are LXC containers located on different physical
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; machines (6 nodes)
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; - one of them are LXC containers located on different physical
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; machines and XEN VMs (6 nodes)
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; - and the last of them are VMware ESX VMs (3 nodes)
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Our application works correctly on the first four clusters, but it
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; doesn't work as we expected on the last one.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; When we update a key and we retrieve this key in order to write it
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; again, it has an old value (it doesn't have the first value that we
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; wrote), for example:
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; The key has: lalala
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; We retrieve the key, and add lololo, so it should be lalala,lololo
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; We retrieve the key again, and try to add lelele, so it should be now:
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; lalala,lololo,lelele, but when we retrieve it again, we only have:
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; lalala,lelele
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; In the second write action, when we retrieve the key, we obtained a
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; key with the old value. We set r, w, pr and rw to 3 to the REST
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; requests, but it doesn't help.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; All the configuration files are very similiar and we don't have any
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; major differences in the disk I/O and network performance of the nodes
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; of the clusters.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Did anyone have a similar issue?
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Regards.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

