---
title: "Re: Feedback for GSoC project - RIak Destination for Syslog-ng"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-05-06T06:00:08-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16114"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16111"
author_name: "Gergely Nagy"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-05-06T06:00:08-07:00
---


Hi!

I'm the mentor for the Riak destination for syslog-ng project, please
allow me to answer the questions below:

&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; "Fred" == Fred Dushin  writes:

 Fred&gt; As far as I understand, you're talking about a mapping from keys to
 Fred&gt; sets, but I'm unclear on a few things.

The idea is to map a set of log messages to a Riak Set. Where both the
key used for the set, and its contents are configurable by the
user. There are no plans for a default at this time.

There are many ways to configure a syslog-ng=&gt;Riak setup with a
destination like the one planned. One is to turn each log message (after
parsing) to a Riak Map, and push those maps into a Riak Set. Another way
is to format the parsed log messages (with all the extracted fiels, if
any) into JSON, and push those into a set.

So, for example, given the following syslog line:

May 6 14:42:18 eowyn avahi-daemon[27812]: Invalid response packet from host 
fe80::5d0f:d53a:7b6:3680.

We'd end up with a JSON like this:

{"timestamp": "2015-05-06T14:42:18+02:00",
 "host": "eowyn",
 "program": "avahi-daemon",
 "pid": 27812,
 "message": "Invalid response packet from host fe80::5d0f:d53a:7b6:3680.",
 "avahi-daemon": {
 "type": "warning",
 "message": "Invalid response packet",
 "host": "fe80::5d0f:d53a:7b6:3680"
 }
}

We could either add that to a Riak set as-is, or turn it into a Riak map
first.

 Fred&gt; What are the keys you are thinking about? Time stamps? If
 Fred&gt; timestamps, these are presumably the timestamps of the syslog
 Fred&gt; event?

Whatever the user configures. They may be time stamps (rounded, for
predictable keys), or a combination of program name + current date (day
granuality).

 Fred&gt; Just a word of warning, if so. You might find a lot of
 Fred&gt; variation in timestamp formats and granularity. Perhaps you
 Fred&gt; can get something reliable out of syslog-ng,

We get something sensible out of syslog-ng. But in the end, it is up to
the user to configure the template used for keys. There may - and
probably will - be examples, but no default.

 Fred&gt; but that won't help you in the case where syslog-ng is
 Fred&gt; functioning as a syslog relay, and you want to preserve the
 Fred&gt; timestamp of the originator, which you should, if you want to
 Fred&gt; preserve integrity of the logs (e.g, for compliance).

In case of syslog-ng, we actually have access to a few kinds of
timestamps: the timestamp from the log message (if any), the timestamp
of receipt, and the current time. The granularity of timestamps is
configurable to some extent.

 Fred&gt; Or are you talking about a key being a (course grained)
 Fred&gt; timestamp, say, an integral value in UTC seconds, for example?
 Fred&gt; And the value(s) being all logs in that interval? Is that your
 Fred&gt; motivation for sets?

That's one way, yes. One could also use something like
$PROGRAM/$YEAR-$MONTH-$DAY as key, if the program doesn't produce more
than a megabyte of logs a day. So with the example above, our key in
case of that log would be avahi-daemon/2015-05-06, and the message would
be an element of the set underneath the key.

 Fred&gt; How much of the syslog payload are you planning to parse?

The destination itself is not going to do any parsing. Other parts of
syslog-ng do that, and it is up to the user to set up a pipeline that
feeds the destination. The source may be syslog, HTTP logs, the Journal,
or any of the other sources syslog-ng supports. How much parsing is
done, and what gets extracted, is no concern to the destination plugin.

 Fred&gt; Another interesting problem is that the STRUCTURED-DATA element of
 Fred&gt; 5424 uses OIDs to discriminate different data types that are encoded
 Fred&gt; in the header. And while there is a kind of loosely coupled authority
 Fred&gt; for OIDs, there is no infrastructure for determining a parsing
 Fred&gt; strategy for these fields. They could really be anything, in the worst
 Fred&gt; case.

As far as I remember, syslog-ng treats all STRUCTURED-DATA elements as
strings. But there are tools within syslog-ng to allow converting to
other data types, but that must be done explicitly.

 Fred&gt; But regardless of the deeply structured data, you could get some very
 Fred&gt; interesting traction by just taking standard headers and indexing them
 Fred&gt; through Yokozuna. Certainly, indexing the body of a syslog message is
 Fred&gt; a great idea, as these messages are generally unstructured and fodder
 Fred&gt; for lucene. This is something that Logstash/ElasticSearch can do
 Fred&gt; pretty effectively today, and it would be cool to see the same in Riak
 Fred&gt; + some syslog provider.

Yep! When I proposed the idea, using Yokozuna is something I had in
mind. Combine the parsing abilities of syslog-ng, Riak for archival
purposes, and Yokozuna for searching. That sounds like a match made in heaven.

 Fred&gt; Finally, it would be really nice if you could structure your plugin in
 Fred&gt; such a way that they could eventually be ported to rsyslog [2]. The
 Fred&gt; rsyslogd daemon is deployed by default on certain Linux favors and
 Fred&gt; enjoys fairly widespread distribution. You might be able to get it
 Fred&gt; supported in that community, as well.

Part of the project is writing a small library to send data to Riak,
From C. Just enough for syslog-ng's needs. That library could be used by
rsyslog, too (like the MongoDB library originally written for
syslog-ng's purposes is used by rsyslog too). But sharing more code than
that is not practical, the two daemons work in widely different ways.

-- 
|8]


signature.asc
Description: PGP signature
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

