---
title: "Re: Load balancer"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-02-02T08:46:28-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13564"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13561"
author_name: "Roberto Aloi"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-02-02T08:46:28-08:00
---


Hi Mark,

an obvious advantage of having a load balancer in front of your Riak
cluster is that you will not need to expose your individual Riak nodes
directly to the clients. Also, a load balancer will save you from a Single
Point of Failure (in case the clients are aware of a single Riak node) or
from the need to implement some round-robin or retry strategy in the
clients themselves (should the clients be aware of multiple nodes). In a
Riak cluster, nodes can disappear and come back. You could instruct your
load balancer to automatically remove Riak nodes which are not responding
to its pings. Finally, consider that - under certain scenarios - being a
coordinator still requires a decent amount of work to do. As an example,
during a map-reduce job a coordinator might be responsible not only for
routing requests to other nodes, but also for aggregating partial results
and for eventually running a reduce phase over the results.


Hope this helps.

Roberto Aloi
@robertoaloi


On Sun, Feb 2, 2014 at 5:18 PM, markrthomas  wrote:

&gt; Hello
&gt;
&gt; Any node in a Riak cluster can coordinate requests for any other Riak node
&gt; that is responsible for the data you're reading/writing.
&gt;
&gt; What is the advantage of fronting a Riak cluster with a load-balancer?
&gt;
&gt; Thanks
&gt;
&gt; Mark
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; View this message in context:
&gt; http://riak-users.197444.n3.nabble.com/Load-balancer-tp4030414.html
&gt; Sent from the Riak Users mailing list archive at Nabble.com.
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;



-- 
Roberto Aloi
---
Website: http://roberto-aloi.com
Twitter: @robertoaloi
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

