---
title: "Re: Should content-type not be required?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-09-10T15:23:18-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12226"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12225"
author_name: "Sam Elliott"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-09-10T15:23:18-07:00
---


The content-type is important for Riak KV: Various clients will use it to 
identify the difference between a response where the whole body is the key, or 
a response that contains siblings (if you have allow\\_mult=true).

I suggest finding or creating a content type, so that this is clearer to your 
app. It will also allow you to version your objects better. Here are a few 
suggestions (of course replace the text between the &lt; &gt;):
- application/octet-stream - this is usually used for binary data, and is the 
easiest thing to set the content-type to.
- application/vnd.. - a vendor-specific 
type, which you can create yourself
- application/vnd...v - 
another vendor-specific type, which supports versioning.

You don't have to use the information in your final app, but it is used by riak 
and riak clients, so that's why we require it. 

-- 
Sam Elliott
Engineer
sam.elli...@basho.com
--


On Tuesday, 10 September 2013 at 5:03PM, Vincenzo Vitale wrote:

&gt; Suppose I want to just store keys in a bucket without any body, this make 
&gt; sense in scenarios where the key completely identify the entity. Is it 
&gt; possible to use the riak http api without including the content-type header?
&gt; Looking at the http specifications, content–type is not mandatory or 
&gt; suggested when the body is empty:
&gt; http://www.w3.org/Protocols/rfc2616/rfc2616-sec7.html#sec7.2.1
&gt; and it's probably a good argument to say that if the entity message is empty 
&gt; then the content type doesn't really make sense. 
&gt; Personally I think that just the existence of an http entity - body or not 
&gt; body – is sufficient to justify a "type"; it's unfortunate that any other 
&gt; higher type (entity type maybe?) - decoupled from what is defined as content 
&gt; - exist in the spec. 
&gt; Framework like spray are quite strict about this, not setting any content 
&gt; type when the content is empty:
&gt; https://github.com/spray/spray/blob/master/spray-http/src/main/scala/spray/http/HttpEntity.scala#L74
&gt; how to deal with such situation? Adding a fake content because of this data 
&gt; store constraint doesn't seems right.
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; Vincenzo.
&gt; 
&gt; -- 
&gt; If your e-mail inbox is out of control, check out http://sanebox.com/t/mmzve. 
&gt; I love it.
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com




\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

