---
title: "Re: Connection multiplexing in the Erlang client"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2016-01-03T11:33:59-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16913"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16912"
author_name: "Matthew Von-Maszewski"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2016-01-03T11:33:59-08:00
---


Paulo,

There is nothing to prevent you from "stacking" multiple protocol buffer 
request packets into the TCP chain. None of our published clients support this 
usage, but it is known to work. You would always get the response packets in 
the order you sent request packets. The benefit is that there is no round trip 
wait between response of first packet and arrival at server for request in 
second packet.

Start with stacking two packets at a time, then work up until throughput no 
longer changes.

Matthew

&gt; On Jan 2, 2016, at 8:30 AM, Paulo Almeida  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; Hi Russell,
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks for the confirmation.
&gt; 
&gt; I'll take a look at the riak\\_api. I suspect the protobuf messages would also 
&gt; need to be changed to include a token/correlation id in order to allow async 
&gt; request/replies.
&gt; 
&gt; Regards,
&gt; 
&gt; Paulo
&gt; 
&gt; On Thu, Dec 31, 2015 at 10:16 AM, Russell Brown  &gt; wrote:
&gt; Hi Paulo,
&gt; You’ll need more than client work. If you’re interested in exploring the 
&gt; server side code riak\\_api (https://github.com/basho/riak\\_api 
&gt; ) is probably where you want to look.
&gt; 
&gt; I’m happy to help/advise on this if you want to get stuck in :D
&gt; 
&gt; Cheers
&gt; 
&gt; Russell
&gt; 
&gt; On 31 Dec 2015, at 08:47, Paulo Almeida  &gt; wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; &gt; Hi,
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; A poolboy or other connection pool based solution still means 1 open tcp 
&gt; &gt; connection per worker. I'm exploring the option of having a single TCP 
&gt; &gt; connection (actually 1 for each Riak node) and then multiplex concurrent 
&gt; &gt; requests to a DB node in a single TCP connection (think HTTP/2 TCP 
&gt; &gt; connection multiplexing).
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Thanks.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Paulo
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; On Thu, Dec 31, 2015 at 2:59 AM, Bryan Hunt  &gt; &gt; wrote:
&gt; &gt; Paulo,
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; You can find a list of community maintained PBC pooling ‎libraries in the 
&gt; &gt; Erlang sub-section of this page:
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; ‎http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/dev/using/libraries/#Community-Libraries 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; II was under the impression that Riak Erlang client ships with poolboy ‎so 
&gt; &gt; I'm uncertain of the distinction between the different libraries listed.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Perhaps someone could comment to clarify?
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Bryan
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; From: Paulo Almeida
&gt; &gt; Sent: Wednesday, December 30, 2015 10:40 PM
&gt; &gt; To: riak-users@lists.basho.com 
&gt; &gt; Subject: Connection multiplexing in the Erlang client
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Hi,
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Does the Erlang Riak client support multiplexing multiple concurrent calls 
&gt; &gt; in a single TCP connection? Specifically when using the PB interface 
&gt; &gt; (riakc\\_pb\\_socket:start\\_link).
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Thanks.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Regards,
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Paulo
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com 
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

