---
title: "Re: Annoying riak-admin transfers display bug"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-05-03T11:15:03-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11013"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg11003"
author_name: "Mark Phillips"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-05-03T11:15:03-07:00
---


Hey Chris,

We feel your pain. In fact, there's open an issue to fix this (though
it might have been hard to find as it's been open for five months).

https://github.com/basho/riak\\_core/issues/256

When you have a moment, add some more ammo to the end of that issue. I
don't think we'll be able to get it into the imminent 1.4 release, but
I'll try to get it looked at in the coming weeks.

Thanks for reporting.

Mark

On Fri, May 3, 2013 at 6:09 AM, Chris Read  wrote:
&gt; Greetings...
&gt;
&gt; There's a bug in the display output of riak-admin transfers that I can't
&gt; take any more, I must say something!
&gt;
&gt; It only displays the first 16 characters of the node name when showing you
&gt; who's handing off where. As our node names are 18 characters long
&gt; (r...@xx.xx.xxx.xxx) we loose the most important part of the name when
&gt; trying to diagnose a problem.
&gt;
&gt; Here's what I'm currently seeing:
&gt;
&gt; # riak-admin transfers
&gt; Attempting to restart script through sudo -H -u riak
&gt; 'r...@10.xx.xxx.150' waiting to handoff 2 partitions
&gt; 'r...@10.xx.xxx.149' waiting to handoff 2 partitions
&gt; 'r...@10.xx.xxx.148' waiting to handoff 1 partitions
&gt; 'r...@10.xx.xxx.147' waiting to handoff 1 partitions
&gt; 'r...@10.xx.xxx.144' waiting to handoff 1 partitions
&gt; 'r...@10.xx.xxx.139' waiting to handoff 1 partitions
&gt; 'r...@10.xx.xxx.138' waiting to handoff 1 partitions
&gt; 'r...@10.xx.xxx.137' waiting to handoff 2 partitions
&gt; 'r...@10.xx.xxx.136' waiting to handoff 2 partitions
&gt; 'r...@10.xx.xxx.134' waiting to handoff 2 partitions
&gt;
&gt; Active Transfers:
&gt;
&gt; transfer type: ownership\\_handoff
&gt; vnode type: riak\\_kv\\_vnode
&gt; partition: 68507889249886074290797726533575766546371837952
&gt; started: 2013-04-26 19:44:26 [6.72 d ago]
&gt; last update: no updates seen
&gt; objects transferred: unknown
&gt;
&gt; unknown
&gt; r...@10.xx.xxx.1 =======================&gt; r...@10.xx.xxx.1
&gt; unknown
&gt;
&gt; transfer type: ownership\\_handoff
&gt; vnode type: riak\\_kv\\_vnode
&gt; partition: 742168800207099138150308704113737470919028244480
&gt; started: 2013-05-01 21:51:07 [1.63 d ago]
&gt; last update: no updates seen
&gt; objects transferred: unknown
&gt;
&gt; unknown
&gt; r...@10.xx.xxx.1 =======================&gt; r...@10.xx.xxx.1
&gt; unknown
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; So I can see I've got some stalled handoffs somewhere, but I have to then
&gt; run "riak-admin ring-status" to see who the offending nodes are (easy
&gt; workaround as it's an ownership handoff).
&gt;
&gt; Please make it better...
&gt;
&gt; Thanks!
&gt;
&gt; Chris
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

