---
title: "Re: Invoking Python script as part of a M/R job?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-09-25T21:35:33-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12406"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12405"
author_name: "jeffrey k eliasen"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-09-25T21:35:33-07:00
---


I'm trying to do some image processing using OpenCV. Later I'll be doing some 
video processing as well. In a future project I will be using R to do deep 
analysis on some data I'm collecting. In all these cases, what I want to do is 
very simple with external languages but very hard with both Erlang and 
Javascript.

What I want to do is simply invoke an external script on each element in a 
bucket in the general case so that I can use advanced external tools in an 
arbitrary manner. I was told by someone at Basho a long time ago (about a year, 
which is a long time in internet years) that this could be done by invoking 
scripts from Erlang, but I haven't heard back from him since then and was 
hoping someone on the list could point me at an example demonstrating this.

-- 

jeffrey k eliasen

Find and follow me on:
Blog: http://jeff.jke.net
Twitter: http://twitter.com/jeffreyeliasen
Facebook: http://facebook.com/jeffrey.eliasen

On Sep 26, 2013, at 10:41 , Luke Bakken  wrote:

&gt; Hi Jeff,
&gt; 
&gt; Erlang and Javascript are the only two supported "in process"
&gt; languages for map/reduce. Can you explain the process or provide the
&gt; python you want to use and perhaps someone on the list could help out
&gt; translating it to erlang?
&gt; --
&gt; Luke Bakken
&gt; CSE
&gt; lbak...@basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Wed, Sep 25, 2013 at 4:47 PM, Jeffrey Eliasen  wrote:
&gt;&gt; I would like to write a job that invokes a python script to execute the
&gt;&gt; processing of each node in a bucket. I can't find a way to do this using
&gt;&gt; Javascript and I don't really know Erlang well enough to make this work...
&gt;&gt; is there a sample piece of code somewhere that demonstrates this?
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Thanks in advance!
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; jeff
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; 

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

