---
title: "Re: use Siblings to implement a message queue?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-09-12T01:15:03-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12248"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12240"
author_name: "Guido Medina"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-09-12T01:15:03-07:00
---



Alex,

RabbitMQ which is a good high performer, developed in Erlang and scales 
just as Riak.


The old saying, the right tool for the right job, I like how fast Riak 
is fetching/storing key values on a distributed environment, I don't 
like Riak for queues, is it because it wasn't designed for that? CRDT 
like CAS operations on structures (to mention some for Java) like 
LinkedBlockingQueue and ConcurrentLinkedQueue should be painful enough 
to develop in a CRDT environment, cause now you would be talking of 
guarding states of few within the same structure; say AtomicReference of 
several variables to warranty a non-blocking CAS operation, in this case 
heap and tail of the queue (Not so true for LinkedBlockingQueue)


And performance of several CRDT for high performance queue I don't 
actually think is going to be good.


If I were to use Riak for my big data environment and would like to 
match Riak on a distributed queueing system then I would use like I 
said, RabbitMQ.


Guido.

On 12/09/13 00:29, Alex Rice wrote:

Hi I'm very new to Riak. The allow\\_mult = true / Siblings feature is
very interesting. Could it be used to implement a high performance
collection like a Queue or Set, in a lock free manner? The Riak docs
make it sound like allow\\_mult is mainly for confict resolution and
degenerate cases, rather than a feature which a data structure could
be designed around. Does anyone have any links to share, or thoughts
about this broader issue?
Thanks much!
Alex

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com



\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

