---
title: "Re: Is Riak dead?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2017-07-14T15:28:15-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg18360"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg18353"
author_name: "Dave King"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2017-07-14T15:28:15-07:00
---


6. Trademarks. This License does not grant permission to use the trade
names, trademarks, service marks, or product names of the Licensor, except
as required for reasonable and customary use in describing the origin of
the Work and reproducing the content of the NOTICE file.

So At minimum I read that as there would need to be a new product name, and
the docs for that product could say formerly known as Riak.

- Peace
Dave

On Fri, Jul 14, 2017 at 4:22 PM, Russell Brown 
wrote:

&gt;
&gt; On 14 Jul 2017, at 23:17, Dave King  wrote:
&gt;
&gt; &gt; Looks like Basho has the trademark on Riak.
&gt; &gt; http://www.trademarkia.com/riak-77954950.html
&gt;
&gt; They sure do. And if you look at the Apache2 license you’ll see that it
&gt; grants use of the name to identify the source.
&gt;
&gt; Look, I’m not a lawyer, and I’m guessing you’re not a lawyer. What
&gt; difference does the name or trademark make? There are a bunch of active
&gt; users of Riak, some of whom have made it clear they plan to continue using
&gt; it. Dance on Basho’s grave all you want, but Riak isn’t dead yet.
&gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; - Peace
&gt; &gt; Dave
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; On Fri, Jul 14, 2017 at 4:08 PM, Alexander Sicular 
&gt; wrote:
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; On Jul 14, 2017, at 11:32, Russell Brown 
&gt; wrote:
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; What do you mean “encumbered”? Riak is the name of an Apache2 licensed
&gt; open source database, so it can continue to be used to describe that apache
&gt; 2 licensed database, please don’t spread FUD.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; You willing to invest time in a project that could be legally encumbered
&gt; at some point in the future because lawyers? You willing to put that beyond
&gt; the clown fiesta that is Basho? I don't think so.
&gt; &gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;
&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

