---
title: "Re: Riak CS : \"405 (Method Not Allowed)\" when creating a bucket"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-03-22T00:30:06-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10553"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg10552"
author_name: "Dan Reverri"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-03-22T00:30:06-07:00
---


Hi Jean-Baptiste,

Can you try updating the "host\\_base" and "host\\_bucket" in s3cfg to use
"riakcs.dev" which is the "cs\\_root\\_host" configured in your Riak CS
app.config?

host\\_base = riakcs.dev
host\\_bucket = %(bucket)s.riakcs.dev


Thanks,
Dan

Daniel Reverri
Client Architect
Basho Technologies, Inc.
d...@basho.com


On Fri, Mar 22, 2013 at 12:03 AM, Jean-Baptiste Barth &lt;
jeanbaptiste.ba...@gmail.com&gt; wrote:

&gt; 2013/3/22 Kelly McLaughlin 
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Jean-Baptiste,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; It seems like something is not properly configured, but I am not really
&gt;&gt; able to spot anything obvious that is wrong from the gist you provided.
&gt;&gt; What operating system are you testing on and are you using packages or have
&gt;&gt; you built from source? Could you also gist your riak\\_cs app.config?
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; As Tyler guessed I used the tutorial here:
&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riakcs/latest/tutorials/fast-track/Building-a-Virtual-Test-Environment/so
&gt; I confirm I used
&gt; https://github.com/hectcastro/vagrant-riak-cs-cluster and left the
&gt; Vagrantfile nearly untouched, with Ubuntu 12.04 by default. I just added
&gt; some paths at the top of the file because I use RVM for my ruby
&gt; environments and Vagrant was unable to find berkshelf, but I'm pretty sure
&gt; it has nothing to do with the actual problem.
&gt;
&gt; Here's a gist of my config files (untouched until you asked me if my
&gt; credentials were valid, they were deployed by the chef recipe or in the
&gt; vagrant template I guess) : https://gist.github.com/jbbarth/5219485
&gt;
&gt; I can try the install with CentOS tomorrow if you want. Also it would be
&gt; great if one of you can gist the output of a successful "s3cmd --debug mb
&gt; s3://test-bucket" so I can dig into the issue myself a bit more.
&gt;
&gt; Thanks for your time, much appreciated :)
&gt;
&gt; Cheers,
&gt;
&gt; Jean-Baptiste
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

