---
title: "Re: [ANN] Riak 2.9.0 - Release Candidate 1 Available"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2019-02-01T02:22:39-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg18581"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg18580"
author_name: "Bryan Hunt"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2019-02-01T02:22:39-08:00
---


Replication would be the optimum solution - in theory anything can be 
implemented - but it would be enormously painful in comparison to simply 
standing up a new cluster.

&gt; On 1 Feb 2019, at 10:14, Guido Medina  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; Hi all,
&gt; 
&gt; Nice work on the upcoming 2.9.0 release, I have a quick question:
&gt; Will it be possible to switch from the eleveldb to the new leveled backend 
&gt; and Tictac AAE for an existing cluster?
&gt; 
&gt; In case it is not possible we are thinking to use the new replication and 
&gt; move to a brand new cluster.
&gt; 
&gt; Kind regards,
&gt; Guido.
&gt; 
&gt; On 30/01/2019 15:23, Nicholas Adams wrote:
&gt;&gt; Dear All,
&gt;&gt; Following on from Martin’s email, the initial builds of the KV 2.9.0rc1 
&gt;&gt; packages are complete. Currently we are limited to Redhat/CentOS 6 and 7 as 
&gt;&gt; well as Ubuntu Bionic. We shall be adding more packages over the next few 
&gt;&gt; days. Please see https://files.tiot.jp/riak/kv/2.9/2.9.0rc1/ 
&gt;&gt;  to download.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Disclaimer: This is a release candidate. Please do not use in production as 
&gt;&gt; we expect bugs and abnormal functionality may occur in certain conditions. 
&gt;&gt; However, please test this lots and place any issues on github so that they 
&gt;&gt; can be fixed before the final release.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Best regards,
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Nicholas
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; From: riak-users  
&gt;&gt;  On Behalf Of Martin Sumner
&gt;&gt; Sent: 30 January 2019 21:07
&gt;&gt; To: riak-users@lists.basho.com 
&gt;&gt; Subject: [ANN] Riak 2.9.0 - Release Candidate 1 Available
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; All,
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; There is now a publicly available release candidate for Riak 2.9.0 for users 
&gt;&gt; to test in their own environment. The release candidate is available to 
&gt;&gt; build from source here - https://github.com/basho/riak/tree/riak-2.9.0rc1 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; There is only one significant change to Riak 2.2.6 for users maintaining 
&gt;&gt; existing configuration settings. The release adds the `vnode\\_soft\\_limits` 
&gt;&gt; feature that aims to reduce high percentile PUT latency, by checking the 
&gt;&gt; outstanding work queue for a vnode before selecting it as a coordinator of a 
&gt;&gt; PUT.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; With additional configuration, there are two major features added in riak 
&gt;&gt; 2.9.0:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; - Support for the leveled backend (as an alternative to bitcask or 
&gt;&gt; eleveldb), to provide for improved throughput in some use cases and lower 
&gt;&gt; tail latency in some use cases 
&gt;&gt; -https://github.com/martinsumner/riak\\_testing\\_notes/blob/master/Release%202.9%20-%20Choosing%20a%20Backend.md
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; ;
&gt;&gt; - Support for a new anti-entropy mechanism (Tictac AAE) as an alternative 
&gt;&gt; for the existing anti-entropy mechanism (to provide both intra-cluster and 
&gt;&gt; inter-cluster data repair, with greater flexibility and reliability).
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; The release also adds support for:
&gt;&gt; - The riak\\_core node\\_worker\\_pool - which provides a mechanism for queueing 
&gt;&gt; background jobs and queries to control the resource consumed on the node by 
&gt;&gt; different queries. No pre-existing features will use the node-worker\\_pool.
&gt;&gt; - AAE folds which allow for both cluster-wide AAE queries (e.g. produce a 
&gt;&gt; merkle tree representing all or a partial range of the cluster data), and 
&gt;&gt; administrative queries (e.g. discovering object sizes and sibling counts 
&gt;&gt; within the database depending on bucket name, key range and last modified 
&gt;&gt; date). AAE folds depend on the Tictac AAE feature being activated.
&gt;&gt; - An interface to request re-replication of an object (where variances 
&gt;&gt; between clusters have been discovered).
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Further details of the release, and the release plan in general can be found 
&gt;&gt; here - 
&gt;&gt; https://github.com/basho/riak/blob/develop-2.9/doc/Release%202.9%20Series%20-%20Overview.md
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; .
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; It is hoped that there will be a short period of about 1 month before the 
&gt;&gt; release candidate will be converted into a formal release. The period will 
&gt;&gt; allow for more testing by Riak users, and also there will be further 
&gt;&gt; enhanced testing of the new modules with the help of Quviq 
&gt;&gt; (http://www.quviq.com/ ). 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; There will follow additional releases under the 2.9 banner, targeted at 
&gt;&gt; enhancing both new and existing inter-cluster replication features. In 
&gt;&gt; parallel to this, work will continue on Release 3.0 which is intended to 
&gt;&gt; modernise the OTP/rebar platform used by Riak.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Thanks to all those who contributed to the release. Apologies to those who 
&gt;&gt; have been kept waiting over the past few months as finalising the changes 
&gt;&gt; and completing the testing has dragged on.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Regards
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Martin
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com 
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com 
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com 
&gt; 

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

