---
title: "Re: Riak consistency state hook"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-07-09T06:50:19-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11426"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg11424"
author_name: "Kresten Krab Thorup"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-07-09T06:50:19-07:00
---


I've also been pondering these things.

The mere presence of out-of-sync handling begs the question of wether we should 
show some information about that to "end users", like much like some systems 
may attaching a "certainty" to a given data point.

It would indeed make sense for some front-end operations to only be enabled 
when the backing system has a high degree of in-sync, or perhaps the front-end 
system should display a warning of sorts.

It would be good to know how much we're currently "out of date". For a single 
key, you can force a check by doing a lookup with a high PR value (reads from 
primaries), and possibly you can even get that info by getting the details 
structure back from a read/write.

For the "system overall", it would be nice to have some kind of dashboard that 
monitors stats for handoffs, read repairs, entropy work, etc. From these stats 
you can probably compute or display something that says "how in sync" the riak 
system as a whole (or part) is right now. Without such a system it is hard to 
know "what is normal".

In general however, it is very difficult to guarantee anything about such an 
evaluation since it may change at any time, even before you get your response 
back.

Kresten

Mobile: + 45 2343 4626 | Skype: krestenkrabthorup | Twitter: @drkrab
Trifork A/S | Margrethepladsen 4 | DK- 8000 Aarhus C | Phone : +45 8732 
8787 | www.trifork.com
[cid:A74426A3-6403-45D7-BF2C-B6FD4CA24662]

On Jul 9, 2013, at 3:09 PM, Evgeniy Shishkin 
&gt; wrote:

Hello gentlemen!

Lets say we have a cluster of 6 machines. Somewhere in time 3 machines (A part) 
got separated from 3 other machines (B part). After that I did some commits on 
B part (w = 3, handoff occured).

Later the network partitioning has gone. A and B parts are now connected again. 
One of consistency mechanisms will start to do its job to make DB consistent.

1. Do I have any chance to be acknowledged when this consistency thing will 
finish its job?

2. More generally, do you think that such mechanism might be useful for end 
users?

Thank you for your effort.

Evgeniy.
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

&lt;&gt;\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

