---
title: "Re: riak-erlang-client"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-09-29T10:25:52-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14953"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14951"
author_name: "Sean Cribbs"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-09-29T10:25:52-07:00
---


Yes, until I get it fixed on rebar 2.5.x. Unfortunately that will
require an "update all the rebars in all the repos" that I'm not sure
we're ready to tackle right now.

On Mon, Sep 29, 2014 at 11:40 AM, Jon Brisbin  wrote:
&gt; Thanks for the help! Got it working now.
&gt;
&gt; Should I just use the version of rebar found in riak\\_pb rather than the
&gt; latest one which I’m using now to make the build easier?
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Thanks!
&gt;
&gt; Jon Brisbin
&gt; http://jbrisbin.com
&gt; @JonBrisbin | @mformonochrome
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On September 29, 2014 at 11:23:41 AM, Sean Cribbs (s...@basho.com) wrote:
&gt;
&gt; This is the rebar problem. If you have a newer rebar, the plugin that
&gt; generates that module won't work. For now use the one in the client to
&gt; generate it, then build the rest of your project.
&gt;
&gt; On Mon, Sep 29, 2014 at 12:20 PM, Russell Brown 
&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt; Have you included the deps/riak\\_pb/ebin in your erlang path?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On 29 Sep 2014, at 17:18, Jon Brisbin  wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I’m trying to use the riak-erlang-client from master to talk to Riak 2.0
&gt;&gt; and
&gt;&gt; I’m getting an error when I use the test commands found in the README:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; (rabbit@localhost)1&gt; {ok, Pid} = riakc\\_pb\\_socket:start\\_link("127.0.0.1",
&gt;&gt; 8087).
&gt;&gt; {ok,&lt;0.685.0&gt;}
&gt;&gt; (rabbit@localhost)2&gt; riakc\\_pb\\_socket:ping(Pid).
&gt;&gt; \\*\\* exception exit: undef
&gt;&gt; in function riak\\_pb\\_messages:msg\\_code/1
&gt;&gt; called as riak\\_pb\\_messages:msg\\_code(rpbpingreq)
&gt;&gt; in call from riak\\_pb\\_codec:encode/1 (src/riak\\_pb\\_codec.erl, line 73)
&gt;&gt; in call from riakc\\_pb\\_socket:encode\\_request\\_message/1
&gt;&gt; (src/riakc\\_pb\\_socket.erl, line 2094)
&gt;&gt; in call from riakc\\_pb\\_socket:send\\_request/2 (src/riakc\\_pb\\_socket.erl,
&gt;&gt; line 2077)
&gt;&gt; in call from riakc\\_pb\\_socket:handle\\_call/3 (src/riakc\\_pb\\_socket.erl,
&gt;&gt; line 1258)
&gt;&gt; in call from gen\\_server:handle\\_msg/5 (gen\\_server.erl, line 585)
&gt;&gt; in call from proc\\_lib:init\\_p\\_do\\_apply/3 (proc\\_lib.erl, line 239)
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Do I have something wrong here? I have installed the riak-erlang-client
&gt;&gt; .ez
&gt;&gt; file as a RabbitMQ plugin via dependency from my riak-exchange plugin,
&gt;&gt; which
&gt;&gt; I’m trying to get updated to 2.0.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Any thoughts?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks!
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Jon Brisbin
&gt;&gt; http://jbrisbin.com
&gt;&gt; @JonBrisbin | @mformonochrome
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt; Software Engineer
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; http://basho.com/



-- 
Sean Cribbs 
Software Engineer
Basho Technologies, Inc.
http://basho.com/

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

