---
title: "Re: Is it a good practice to make riak a service and automatically	start when the machine starts?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-08-19T22:54:07-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14756"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14755"
author_name: "Gavin Huang"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-08-19T22:54:07-07:00
---


thanks for the quick reply, it make sense for me.


On Wed, Aug 20, 2014 at 1:07 PM, Jared Morrow  wrote:

&gt; Gavin,
&gt;
&gt; I think if you monitor the crash and reboot and take note or flag if it
&gt; happens often, then that could be when you investigate the node more in
&gt; depth. Having a node go up and down often is a sign clearly of something
&gt; bad happening that should be investigated. For a rare reboot/crash, having
&gt; it start on boot and automatically come up seems like the more ops friendly
&gt; way to treat some event that should be rare. Due to Riak working without
&gt; all its nodes up, we've had people who forgot to start Riak nodes and never
&gt; noticed they were down for weeks. This is good in that Riak can take it,
&gt; but not very awesome when you do bring it up and the node has a lot of
&gt; handoff work to do to catch up.
&gt;
&gt; -Jared
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Tue, Aug 19, 2014 at 9:16 PM, Gavin Huang 
&gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi,
&gt;&gt; We have a little uncertainty in our team about whether to have riak
&gt;&gt; automatically start when machine get rebooted.
&gt;&gt; It do bring us some convenient if riak can start by default when
&gt;&gt; machine crashed for some reason, and automatically restart. but i was
&gt;&gt; wondering is there any case that automatically starting a problematic node
&gt;&gt; and join the cluster would cause some problem. do you guys have any idea?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks.
&gt;&gt; Gavin
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

