---
title: "Re: Riak consistency state hook"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-07-09T06:54:39-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11428"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg11425"
author_name: "Todd Tyree"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-07-09T06:54:39-07:00
---


Oh, you may find the docs on riak-admin useful:

http://docs.basho.com/riak/1.3.2/references/Command-Line-Tools---riak-admin/

Best,
Todd


On Tue, Jul 9, 2013 at 2:46 PM, Todd Tyree  wrote:

&gt; Hello Evgeniy,
&gt;
&gt; The consistency mechanisms, Hinted Handoff, Active Anti-Entropy (AAE) and
&gt; Read Repair, all occur automatically. You can get an overview of the
&gt; Hinted Handoff progress using `riak-admin transfers`. If you need more
&gt; detail, you can parse the cluster logs and look for the entries related to
&gt; Hinted Handoff and AAE. As Read Repair is done on a per-request basis, it
&gt; is not logged.
&gt;
&gt; Hope that helps,
&gt;
&gt; Best,
&gt; Todd
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Tue, Jul 9, 2013 at 2:09 PM, Evgeniy Shishkin &lt;
&gt; evgeniy.shish...@gmail.com&gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hello gentlemen!
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Lets say we have a cluster of 6 machines. Somewhere in time 3 machines (A
&gt;&gt; part) got separated from 3 other machines (B part). After that I did some
&gt;&gt; commits on B part (w = 3, handoff occured).
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Later the network partitioning has gone. A and B parts are now connected
&gt;&gt; again. One of consistency mechanisms will start to do its job to make DB
&gt;&gt; consistent.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; 1. Do I have any chance to be acknowledged when this consistency thing
&gt;&gt; will finish its job?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; 2. More generally, do you think that such mechanism might be useful for
&gt;&gt; end users?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thank you for your effort.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Evgeniy.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

