---
title: "Re: Question about counters"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-07-01T06:34:18-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14435"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14431"
author_name: "Alex De la rosa"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-07-01T06:34:18-07:00
---


I actually have the latest version available (2.0.3), I got it like this:

easy\\_install
https://pypi.python.org/packages/2.7/r/riak/riak-2.0.3-py2.7.egg

If I clone the GIT repository, may I have problems as I have the
easy\\_install package already? would it conflict somehow?

Cheers,
Alex


On Tue, Jul 1, 2014 at 3:23 PM, Luke Bakken  wrote:

&gt; Hi Alex,
&gt;
&gt; Search in Riak 2.0 does require a JVM to be installed as you found.
&gt;
&gt; create\\_search\\_index is part of the master branch of the Python client:
&gt;
&gt; lbakken ~/Projects/basho/riak-python-client (master=)
&gt; $ git grep create\\_search\\_index
&gt; riak/client/operations.py:461: def create\\_search\\_index(self, transport,
&gt; index, schema=None, n\\_val=None):
&gt;
&gt; Could you make a clone of the git repository and use the code from there?
&gt;
&gt; https://github.com/basho/riak-python-client
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Luke Bakken
&gt; CSE
&gt; lbak...@basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Tue, Jul 1, 2014 at 2:10 AM, Alex De la rosa 
&gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; I found out on http://docs.basho.com/riak/2.0.0beta1/dev/using/search
&gt;&gt; that in Riak 2.0 additional steps are needed... i fixed my code as follows,
&gt;&gt; but still crashing:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; -----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
&gt;&gt; -----+-----+-----+-----+-----
&gt;&gt; import riak
&gt;&gt; client = riak.RiakClient(protocol='pbc',
&gt;&gt; nodes=[{'host':'127.0.0.1','http\\_port':8098,'pb\\_port':8087}])
&gt;&gt; client.create\\_search\\_index('men') # NEW: Creating a search index
&gt;&gt; bucket = client.bucket('accounts')
&gt;&gt; bucket.enable\\_search()
&gt;&gt; bucket.set\\_property('search\\_index', 'men') # NEW: Setting the search
&gt;&gt; index to the bucket
&gt;&gt; key = bucket.new('alex', data={"username":"Alex","age":25,"sex":"male"},
&gt;&gt; content\\_type='application/json')
&gt;&gt; key.store()
&gt;&gt; print bucket.search('sex=male')
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; -----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; this time seems the Python client is not fully updated again and missing
&gt;&gt; functionality (like "counters"):
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; -----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----
&gt;&gt; Traceback (most recent call last):
&gt;&gt; File "test.py", line 3, in 
&gt;&gt; client.create\\_search\\_index('men')
&gt;&gt; AttributeError: 'RiakClient' object has no attribute 'create\\_search\\_index'
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; -----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Is a problem of the Python client? Or there is something wrong on my
&gt;&gt; code? When will it be a Python client update solving all these issues? is a
&gt;&gt; bit frustrating wanting to try the features and see you can not do it
&gt;&gt; because the client is not fully operational.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Cheers,
&gt;&gt; Alex
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

