---
title: "Re: 5-node low-cost, low-power Riak KV cluster -- this sound feasible?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2017-05-16T21:21:45-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg18214"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg18180"
author_name: "Toby Corkindale"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2017-05-16T21:21:45-07:00
---


On Thu, 27 Apr 2017 at 13:02 Lloyd R. Prentice 
wrote:

&gt; Hello,
&gt;
&gt; I'd like to build a five-node low-cost, low-power Riak KV cluster. Use
&gt; case: learning Riak, development, testing, storage of personal data.
&gt;
&gt; -- Based on pure hand-waving, I've plugged numbers that seem more than
&gt; adequate for my purposes into the Riak Cluster Capacity Planning
&gt; Calculator. Here's the recommendation:
&gt;
&gt; To manage your estimated 100.0 thousand key/bucket pairs where bucket
&gt; names are ~10 bytes, keys are ~36 bytes, values are ~97.7 KiB and you are
&gt; setting aside 2.0 GiB of RAM per-node for in-memory data management within
&gt; a cluster that is configured to maintain 3 replicas per key (N = 3) then
&gt; Riak, using the Bitcask storage engine, will require at least:
&gt;
&gt; 5 nodes
&gt; 6.4 MiB of RAM per node (31.9 MiB total across all nodes)
&gt; 5.6 GiB of storage space per node (28.0 GiB total storage space used
&gt; across all nodes)
&gt; Based on this, I'm considering the following hardware:
&gt;
&gt; 5 ODROID XU-4
&gt; http://www.hardkernel.com/main/products/prdt\\_info.php?g\\_code=G143452239825
&gt;
&gt; Each with 8 Gb eMMC storage
&gt;
&gt; This provides a 64-bit 2 GHz processor and 2 Gb RAM per day node running
&gt; Ubuntu 16.04 at total cost of something under total $65000 for the cluster.
&gt;
&gt; Does this sound like a feasible way to go? Any downsides?
&gt;


I'm not sure where you get the $65000 total figure, but that sounds
extremely high!! Unless you're talking Vietnamese Dong currency or
something.

Either way, why not consider running 5x Amazon AWS EC2 nodes?
Or run up a bunch of virtual machines on your own PC?

I think both of those will give you more realistic Riak results than using
a bunch of ARM bigLITTLE machines which are pretty different to your
typical Linux servers.

Toby
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

