---
title: "Re: Node is not running!"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2017-02-22T07:43:44-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg18005"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg18003"
author_name: "Paul Henrich"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2017-02-22T07:43:44-08:00
---


Hi Jurgen,

This rings a bell from a recent exchange on the list. Try this:
&gt; Hi David,
&gt; I vaguely remember the same problem from a previous setup I did, a while
&gt; ago now.
&gt; IIRC, the original configured IP gets written to disk on the initial start
&gt; and then the next start fails due to the mis-match.
&gt; Try deleting your data directory and restarting, so this will be like the
&gt; initial startup again.
&gt; //Sean.

http://lists.basho.com/pipermail/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com/2017-February/019061.html
 



&gt; On Feb 22, 2017, at 5:34 AM, Jurgen Ramaliu  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; Hello RIAK,
&gt; 
&gt; I have one problem with riak node configuration. I have install RIAK KV and 
&gt; everything is ok.
&gt; I run riak start on my CentOS 6.5 and it starts ok.
&gt; I have configure file /etc/hosts :
&gt; 
&gt; 127.0.0.1 localhost localhost.localdomain localhost4 localhost4.localdomain4
&gt; ::1 localhost localhost.localdomain localhost6 localhost6.localdomain6
&gt; 192.168.1.10 riak1.mydomain.com  
&gt; riak1
&gt; 
&gt; and this file /etc/sysconfig/network :
&gt; 
&gt; NETWORKING=yes
&gt; HOSTNAME=riak1.mydomain.com 
&gt; 
&gt; But, when i try to do this steps, on this link : 
&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riak/kv/2.2.0/using/running-a-cluster/#configure-the-first-node
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; to configure first node, when I change nodename form :
&gt; nodename = riak@127.0.0.1  to nodename = 
&gt; riak@192.168.1.10  , riak doesn't start, I take 
&gt; back this error messages :
&gt; 
&gt; [root@riak1 ~]# riak start
&gt; Node 'riak@192.168.1.10 ' not responding to pings.
&gt; Node 'riak@192.168.1.10 ' not responding to pings.
&gt; Node is not running!
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; or nodename = r...@riak1.mydomain.com , riak 
&gt; doesn't start, I take back this error messages :
&gt; 
&gt; [root@riak1 ~]# riak start
&gt; 
&gt; Node 'r...@riak1.mydomain.com ' not 
&gt; responding to pings.
&gt; Node 'r...@riak1.mydomain.com ' not 
&gt; responding to pings.
&gt; Node is not running!
&gt; 
&gt; Can you please tell me how can I resolve this problem?
&gt; 
&gt; Thank you in advance,
&gt; 
&gt; Jurgen
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

