---
title: "Re: Random timeouts on Riak"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-12-29T03:59:10-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15415"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15414"
author_name: "Ciprian Manea"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-12-29T03:59:10-08:00
---


Hi Jason,

Are these random timeouts happening for only one key, or is common for more?

What is the CPU utilisation in the cluster when you're experience these
timeouts?

Can you spot anything peculiar in your server's $ dmesg outputs? Any I/O
errors there?


Regards,
Ciprian

On Mon, Dec 29, 2014 at 1:55 PM, Sargun Dhillon  wrote:

&gt; Several things:
&gt; 1) I recommend you have a 5-node cluster:
&gt; http://basho.com/why-your-riak-cluster-should-have-at-least-five-nodes/
&gt; 2) What version of Riak are you using?
&gt; 3) What backend(s) are you using?
&gt; 4) What's the size of your keyspace?
&gt; 5) Are you actively rewriting keys, or writing keys to the cluster?
&gt; 6) Do you know how much I/O the cluster is currently doing?
&gt;
&gt; On Mon, Dec 29, 2014 at 2:51 AM, Jason Ryan 
&gt; wrote:
&gt; &gt; Hi,
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; We are getting random timeouts from our application (&gt;60seconds) when we
&gt; try
&gt; &gt; to retrieve a key from our Riak cluster (4 nodes with a load balancer in
&gt; &gt; front of them). Our application just uses the standard REST API to query
&gt; &gt; Riak.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; We are pretty new to Riak - so would like to understand how best to debug
&gt; &gt; this issue? Is there any good pointers on what to start with? This is our
&gt; &gt; production cluster.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Thanks,
&gt; &gt; Jason
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; This message is for the named person's use only. If you received this
&gt; &gt; message in error, please immediately delete it and all copies and notify
&gt; the
&gt; &gt; sender. You must not, directly or indirectly, use, disclose, distribute,
&gt; &gt; print, or copy any part of this message if you are not the intended
&gt; &gt; recipient. Any views expressed in this message are those of the
&gt; individual
&gt; &gt; sender and not Trustev Ltd. Trustev is registered in Ireland No. 516425
&gt; and
&gt; &gt; trades from 2100 Cork Airport Business Park, Cork, Ireland.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

