---
title: "Re: ring_creation_size with `riak-admin status`"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-07-23T23:11:17-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14545"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14516"
author_name: "Matthew Eernisse"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-07-23T23:11:17-07:00
---


Sorry to take some time to get back to this -- I have been travelling for
the past few days. I wish I could blame the Debian installer for my
problem. It doesn't actually fire up the service on installation.

In this case it was simply my lack of familiarity with the config syntax. I
saw the double-percent on all the comment lines, assumed that meant
'comment,' and didn't realize that a single percent would comment the line
out as well. The ring\\_creation\\_size relies on a built-in default, and so
that line is initially commented out.

Thanks for the assistance with this. :)



On Mon, Jul 21, 2014 at 11:19 PM, Sean Cribbs  wrote:

&gt; Matthew,
&gt;
&gt; At least one or more of your nodes must have started before you changed
&gt; that setting. Debian pretty often will start a service immediately after
&gt; its package is installed, which can be annoying. Assuming you didn't put
&gt; any data in it yet, the solution is to take all of the nodes down, remove
&gt; all files from /var/lib/riak/ring on all nodes, and then restart and rejoin
&gt; the cluster.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Mon, Jul 21, 2014 at 8:48 AM, Matthew Eernisse  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Riak folks,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi, I'm new to Riak, and confused by something I've seen after setting up
&gt;&gt; a cluster. (Currently a 4-machine test cluster in EC2.)
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; After installing Riak on Ubuntu via the riak\\_1.4.9-1\\_amd64.deb, I very
&gt;&gt; meticulously set ring\\_creation\\_size to 256 in each app.config before
&gt;&gt; starting the service and adding it to the cluster.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; But when I do `riak-admin status`, it displays a ring\\_creation\\_size value
&gt;&gt; of 64. Any idea what's going on here?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks in advance for the help.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Matthew
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt; Software Engineer
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; http://basho.com/
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

