---
title: "Re: Cross-Compile Riak for Embedded Device"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2017-02-13T08:51:56-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg17973"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg17956"
author_name: "Darshan Shah"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2017-02-13T08:51:56-08:00
---


Our main usecase is to create a database in Embedded system to store value
received from one server.
For our usecase Key value based database is best suitable and we found Riak
is one of best for this.
So we want to cross compile Riak databse for Embedded system.

On Fri, Feb 10, 2017, 3:46 PM Stephen Etheridge 
wrote:

&gt; Darshan,
&gt;
&gt; Perhaps if you gave some more details of what you are trying to do I might
&gt; be able to help further?
&gt;
&gt; Stephen
&gt;
&gt; On 10 February 2017 at 10:15, Stephen Etheridge 
&gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Darshan,
&gt;
&gt; I think you are going to be too resource constrained to do anything
&gt; effective. We do have a demo set-up of a 5 node Riak cluster running on
&gt; Raspberry Pis, but they have 1 GB RAM each.
&gt;
&gt; I know there is a board that boots straight to Erlang from Siemens
&gt; grisp.org - I saw it demo'd at EUC in Stockholm last year, but currently
&gt; it only has 64MB of RAM. The designer was talking about the next
&gt; generation having 1GB RAM but I am not sure when that will be available.
&gt;
&gt; Stephen Etheridge
&gt; Solution Architect, Basho EMEA
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On 10 February 2017 at 03:55, Darshan Shah  wrote:
&gt;
&gt; I am targeting arm-arago-gnuabi.
&gt; I want to port on ti814x chipset.
&gt;
&gt; On Thu, Feb 9, 2017, 11:16 PM Luke Bakken  wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Hi Darshan,
&gt;
&gt; Riak's memory requirements don't lend it to use on embedded devices.
&gt; Which device are you targeting?
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Luke Bakken
&gt; Engineer
&gt; lbak...@basho.com
&gt;
&gt; On Wed, Feb 8, 2017 at 5:49 AM, Darshan Shah 
&gt; wrote:
&gt; &gt; Hi,
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; I am new to Riak and I would like to know steps to cross compile Riak for
&gt; &gt; Embedded Unit.
&gt; &gt; From website I found steps to compile with source code but I need steps
&gt; to
&gt; &gt; cross compile.
&gt; &gt; It will be appreciated if you can give steps or links from which I can
&gt; get
&gt; &gt; idea to cross compile.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Thanking in advance,
&gt; &gt; Darshan Shah
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; { "name" : "Stephen Etheridge",
&gt; "title" : "Solution Architect, EMEA",
&gt; "Organisation" : "Basho Technologies, Inc",
&gt; "Telephone" : "07814 406662",
&gt; "email" : "mailto:setheri...@basho.com",
&gt; "github" : "http://github.com/datalemming",
&gt; "twitter" : "@datalemming"}
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; { "name" : "Stephen Etheridge",
&gt; "title" : "Solution Architect, EMEA",
&gt; "Organisation" : "Basho Technologies, Inc",
&gt; "Telephone" : "07814 406662",
&gt; "email" : "mailto:setheri...@basho.com",
&gt; "github" : "http://github.com/datalemming",
&gt; "twitter" : "@datalemming"}
&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

