---
title: "Re: Load balancer"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-02-02T10:02:40-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13570"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13569"
author_name: "Roberto Aloi"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-02-02T10:02:40-08:00
---


Konstantin,

I thought you were asking about monitoring nodes' health in general and not
specifically from a Load Balancer perspective.
What load balancer are you using or planning to use?

Roberto Aloi
@robertoaloi



On Sun, Feb 2, 2014 at 6:39 PM, Konstantin Kalin  wrote:

&gt; Well. I'm kinda aware about the stats :) But I believe they are not a good
&gt; way for LB. The issue is LB requires a simple response OK and cannot do
&gt; extended parsing.
&gt;
&gt; I see following cases what can happen in production:
&gt; 1) Server is alive - riak is stopped
&gt; 2) Server is down completely
&gt; 3) Server is alive, riak is alive but it's not a part of a cluster.
&gt; 4) Server is alive, riak console is alive but backend(bitcasc for example)
&gt; is down.
&gt; 5) What's else?
&gt;
&gt; Honestly I'm considering to build a special Web service that will run
&gt; together with Riak and give it status. So far I was not be able to find a
&gt; standard way using Riak capabilities to cover all 4 possible scenarios.
&gt;
&gt; Thank you,
&gt; Konstantin.
&gt;
&gt; On Feb 2, 2014, at 9:33 AM, Roberto Aloi  wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Hi Konstantin,
&gt;
&gt; Riak exposes a number of metrics - such as counters and histograms - that
&gt; you can use to monitor your nodes' health.
&gt; Metrics are available through the HTTP API via the /stats endpoint.
&gt; For details, see:
&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/ops/running/stats-and-monitoring/
&gt;
&gt; Cheers,
&gt;
&gt; Roberto Aloi
&gt; @robertoaloi
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Sun, Feb 2, 2014 at 6:23 PM, Konstantin Kalin &lt;
&gt; konstantin.ka...@gmail.com&gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Sorry jumping into the discussion. What is a best way to monitor Riak
&gt;&gt; node health? Most loadbalancer uses HTTP request to check if a node is
&gt;&gt; alive.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Currently we use Riak Java client to load balance requests to Riak. The
&gt;&gt; issue is if a node gets removed or added all Java servers need to update
&gt;&gt; configuration to reflect the changes. It's kinda annoying for operation
&gt;&gt; team. So we started thinking about putting LB between Riak cluster and Java
&gt;&gt; clients.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thank you,
&gt;&gt; Konstantin.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Feb 2, 2014, at 8:25 AM, Gideon de Kok  wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Mark,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Your throughput of your total cluster will still be dependent on the
&gt;&gt; throughput on that specific node:
&gt;&gt; It can coordinate requests, but stays responsible for the actual response
&gt;&gt; to the client.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Load balancers not only help to increase performance by fanning out the
&gt;&gt; requests to multiple servers,
&gt;&gt; it will also increase the availability of your cluster in terms of client
&gt;&gt; to server connections.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Cheers,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On 2 Feb 2014 at 17:20:28, markrthomas 
&gt;&gt; (mark.tho...@equifax.com)
&gt;&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hello
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Any node in a Riak cluster can coordinate requests for any other Riak
&gt;&gt; node
&gt;&gt; that is responsible for the data you're reading/writing.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; What is the advantage of fronting a Riak cluster with a load-balancer?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Mark
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; View this message in context:
&gt;&gt; http://riak-users.197444.n3.nabble.com/Load-balancer-tp4030414.html
&gt;&gt; Sent from the Riak Users mailing list archive at 
&gt;&gt; Nabble.com
&gt;&gt; .
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Roberto Aloi
&gt; ---
&gt; Website: http://roberto-aloi.com
&gt; Twitter: @robertoaloi
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;


-- 
Roberto Aloi
---
Website: http://roberto-aloi.com
Twitter: @robertoaloi
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

