---
title: "Re: riak disk usage"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-11-30T15:20:48-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13131"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13130"
author_name: "Silasi Stefan"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-11-30T15:20:48-08:00
---


Thanks for your reply Hector.
I'm using the simple python/boto script for upload via the
key.set\\_content\\_from\\_file method. Each object has an unique key name.

Today, 2 of the nodes are at 100% disk usage after I tried to remove one of
them via "riak-admin cluster remove riak@node".
I upgraded to the technical preview version 2.0... so far, it didn't help.

Thank you,
Stefan.


On Sat, Nov 30, 2013 at 8:27 PM, Hector Castro  wrote:

&gt; Hello Silasi,
&gt;
&gt; Can you please explain the process you're using to add the image/video
&gt; data into Riak CS? Are you overwriting objects or using multipart
&gt; upload?
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Hector
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Thu, Nov 28, 2013 at 5:33 AM, Silasi Stefan 
&gt; wrote:
&gt; &gt; Hello,
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; I'm preparing an evironment for an image/video storage website, with
&gt; riak-cs
&gt; &gt; on top of riak cluster.
&gt; &gt; I have 5 servers with a 900gb disk each and about 700gb of images/videos
&gt; &gt; collected, mainly images.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; I have a little over 300,000 objects in total, all stored in one place
&gt; &gt; occupying a little over 700gb data. Based on the formula: 700gb x 3
&gt; &gt; replication factor, I was expecting to use around 2.1-2.2 TB data.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; After uploading half of the 700gb data (350gb x 3 = 1,05TB), I notice the
&gt; &gt; disk usage is around 70% already on all nodes (640gb x 5 = ~3.2TB). The
&gt; &gt; nodes are dedicated to riak/riak-cs.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Am I missing something?
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Thank you,
&gt; &gt; Stefan.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

