---
title: "Re: Riak Java client not returning deleted sibling"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-10-03T09:35:36-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12502"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12500"
author_name: "Daniel Iwan"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-10-03T09:35:36-07:00
---


Thanks Brian for quick response.

As a side question, what is the best way to delete such an object i.e. once
I know one of the siblings has 'deleted' flag true because I fetched it?
Should I just use DomainBucket.delete(key) without providing any vclock?
Would it wipe it from Riak or create yet another sibling?

Regards
Daniel


On 3 October 2013 17:20, Brian Roach  wrote:

&gt; Daniel -
&gt;
&gt; Yeah, that is the case. When the ability to pass fetch/store/delete
&gt; meta was added to DomainBucket way back when it appears that was
&gt; missed.
&gt;
&gt; I'll add it and forward-port to 1.4.x as well and cut new jars. Should
&gt; be avail by tomorrow morning at the latest.
&gt;
&gt; Thanks!
&gt; - Roach
&gt;
&gt; On Thu, Oct 3, 2013 at 9:38 AM, Daniel Iwan  wrote:
&gt; &gt; Hi I'm using Riak 1.3.1 and Java client 1.1.2
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Using http and curl I see 4 siblings for an object one of which has
&gt; &gt; X-Riak-Deleted: true
&gt; &gt; but when I'm using Java client with DomainBucket my Converter's method
&gt; &gt; toDomain is called only 3 times.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; I have set the property
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; builder.returnDeletedVClock(true);
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; on my DomainBuilder which I keep reusing for all queries and store
&gt; &gt; operations (I guess that's good practice btw.?)
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; I run that under debugger and it seems raw client sees 4 siblings but
&gt; passes
&gt; &gt; over only 3 due to bug (I think) in DomainBucket.fetch() method which
&gt; should
&gt; &gt; have
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; if (fetchMeta.hasReturnDeletedVClock()) {
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; so.returnDeletedVClock(fetchMeta.getReturnDeletedVClock());
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; }
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; at the end, as store() method has.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Could you confirm or I'm I completely wrong?
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Regards
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Daniel
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

