---
title: "Re: Performance slows down with write heavy use"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-04-14T15:27:55-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14084"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14083"
author_name: "Luke Bakken"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-04-14T15:27:55-07:00
---


Hi Matthew -

Some suggestions:

\\* Upgrade to Riak 1.4.8

\\* Test with a ring size of 64

\\* Use staggered merge windows in your cluster (
http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/ops/advanced/backends/bitcask/)

\\* Since you're on dedicated hardware RAID, use the noop scheduler for your
Riak data volumes:

cat /sys/block/sd\\*/queue/scheduler
noop anticipatory deadline [cfq]

\\* Increase +zdbbl in /etc/riak/vm.args to 96000

Thanks
--
Luke Bakken
CSE
lbak...@basho.com


On Mon, Apr 14, 2014 at 2:33 PM, Matthew MacClary &lt;
maccl...@lifetime.oregonstate.edu&gt; wrote:

&gt; I have a persistent issue I am trying to diagnose. In our use of Riak we
&gt; have multiple data creators writing into a 7 node cluster. The value size
&gt; is a bit large at around 2MB. The behavior I am seeing is that if I delete
&gt; all data out of bitcask, then test performance I get fast writes. As I keep
&gt; doing the same work of writing to the cluster, then the Riak write times
&gt; will start tailing off and getting really bad.
&gt;
&gt; Initial write times seen by my application: 0.5 seconds for 100MB worth of
&gt; values (~200MB/s)
&gt; Subsequent write times: 11 seconds for 100MB worth of values (~9MB/s)
&gt;
&gt; This slow down can happen over roughly 20-40 minutes of writing or about
&gt; 200GB worth of key/value pairs written.
&gt;
&gt; I can reset the cluster to get fast performance again by stopping Riak and
&gt; deleting the bitcask directories, then starting Riak again. This step is
&gt; not feasible for production, but during testing at least the write speed
&gt; goes up by 20x.
&gt;
&gt; Watching iostat I see that every few seconds the disk io jumps to ~11%. It
&gt; doesn't seem that highly loaded from my cursory look. Watching top I see
&gt; that beam.smp runs at around 100 for CPU% or less when heavily loaded. I am
&gt; not sure how to tell what it is doing though :-)
&gt;
&gt; Thanks for any suggestions!!
&gt;
&gt; -Matt
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; ================
&gt; System Description
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; avg value size = 2MB
&gt; Riak version = 1.4.1
&gt; n\\_val = 2
&gt; client threads total = 105
&gt; backend = bitcask
&gt; ring\\_creation\\_size = 128
&gt; node count = 7
&gt; node OS = RHEL 6.2
&gt; server RAM = 128GB
&gt; RAID = RAID0 across 8 SAS drives
&gt; FS = ext4
&gt; FS options = /dev/mapper/vg0-lv0 / ext4
&gt; rw,noatime,barrier=0,stripe=512,data=ordered 0 0
&gt; bitcask size on one server = 133GB
&gt; AAE = off
&gt; interface = protobuf
&gt; client library = riak java client
&gt; file-max = 65536
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

