---
title: "Re: How to achieve good performance on riak with AWS."
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-05-20T01:02:44-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11118"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg11104"
author_name: "Abhishek Amberkar [अभिषेक]"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-05-20T01:02:44-07:00
---


Thanks for the reply. Replying inline.

On Sun, May 19, 2013 at 8:35 PM, Christian Dahlqvist
 wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Hi Abhishek,
&gt;
&gt; I have a few suggestions that may be worthwhile testing in order to get 
&gt; better performance from your cluster:
&gt;
&gt; 1) Ensure you have followed the guidelines for EC2 instance tuning: 
&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/cookbooks/Performance-Tuning-AWS/


We have followed this as well as Linux Tuning, except PIOPS.

&gt;
&gt; 2) The Protocol Buffer interface is considerably faster than the HTTP 
&gt; interface, so switch to using the protocol buffer driver 
&gt; (basho\\_bench\\_driver\\_riakc\\_pb) if possible. You may also try increasing 
&gt; concurrency somewhat to see if that has any effect.
&gt; 3) If your application is write heavy but will not update values (you are 
&gt; unlikely to need vector clocks in order to resolve conflicts), you can set 
&gt; 'last\\_write\\_wins' to true in the bucket properties. This will generally 
&gt; result in better write performance.
&gt; 4) As I/O performance may vary on EC2 instances, you may want to try enabling 
&gt; provisioned IOPS to see if this improves performance.


Will try out your suggestions and post the results again.


&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Best regards,
&gt;
&gt; Christian
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On 19 May 2013, at 14:58, Abhishek Amberkar [अभिषेक] 
&gt;  wrote:
&gt;
&gt; 
&gt;
&gt;



--
With Regards
Abhishek Amberkar

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

