---
title: "Re: Ok, I am stumped. Losing data or riak stop"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2016-02-26T08:06:05-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg17082"
author_name: "Christopher Mancini"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2016-02-26T08:06:05-08:00
---


Hey Joe,

I will do my best to help, but I am not the most experienced with Riak
operations. Your best bet to get to a solution as fast as possible is to
include the full users group, which I have added to the recipients of this
message.

1. Are the Riak data directories within Vagrant shared directories between
the host and guest? I have had issues with OS file system caching before
when working with web server files.

2. What version of Ubuntu are you using?

3. How did you install Riak on Ubuntu?

4. Have you tried restoring the original distribution riak.conf file and
seen if the issue persists? This would help you determine if the issue is
your config or something with your environment.

Chris

On Fri, Feb 26, 2016 at 10:55 AM Joe Olson  wrote:

&gt;
&gt; Chris -
&gt;
&gt; I cannot figure out what is going on. Here is my test case. Configuration
&gt; file attached. I am running a single node of Riak on a vagrant box with a
&gt; level DB back end. I don't even have to bring the box down, merely stopping
&gt; and restarting riak '(riak stop' and 'riak start' or 'risk restart) causes
&gt; all the keys to be lost. The riak node is set up on a Vagrant box. But
&gt; again....I do not have to bring the machine up or down to get this error.
&gt;
&gt; I've also deleted the ring info in /var/lib/riak/ring, and deleted all the
&gt; leveldb files. In this case, the bucket type is just n\\_val = 1, and the
&gt; ring size is the minimum of 8.
&gt;
&gt; Is it possible Riak is not flushing RAM to disk after write? The keys only
&gt; reside in RAM?
&gt;
&gt; My test procedure:
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; ====On a remote machine=====
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; riak01@ubuntu:/etc$ curl -i http://
&gt; :8098/types/n1/buckets/test/keys?keys=true
&gt; HTTP/1.1 200 OK
&gt; Vary: Accept-Encoding
&gt; Server: MochiWeb/1.1 WebMachine/1.10.8 (that head fake, tho)
&gt; Date: Fri, 26 Feb 2016 13:14:59 GMT
&gt; Content-Type: application/json
&gt; Content-Length: 17
&gt;
&gt; {"keys":["test"]}
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; riak01@ubuntu:/etc$
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; ====On the single Riak node itself====
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; [vagrant@i-2016022519 -9bb5c84f riak]$ sudo riak stop
&gt; ok
&gt; [vagrant@i-2016022519 -9bb5c84f riak]$ sudo riak start
&gt; [vagrant@i-2016022519 -9bb5c84f riak]$ sudo riak ping
&gt;
&gt; pong
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; ====Back to the remote machine====
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; riak01@ubuntu:/etc$ curl -i http://
&gt; :8098/types/n1/buckets/test/keys?keys=true
&gt; HTTP/1.1 200 OK
&gt; Vary: Accept-Encoding
&gt; Server: MochiWeb/1.1 WebMachine/1.10.8 (that head fake, tho)
&gt; Date: Fri, 26 Feb 2016 13:16:34 GMT
&gt; Content-Type: application/json
&gt; Content-Length: 11
&gt;
&gt; {"keys":[]}
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; riak01@ubuntu:/etc$
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; --
Sincerely,

Christopher Mancini
-----------------------------

employee = {
 purpose: solve problems with code,
 phone: 7164625591,
 email: cmanc...@basho.com,
 github: http://www.github.com/christophermancini
}
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

