---
title: "Re: Update to 1.4.8"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-04-08T03:33:08-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14021"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14020"
author_name: "Edgar Veiga"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-04-08T03:33:08-07:00
---


So basho, to resume:

I've upgraded to the latest 1.4.8 version without removing the anti-entropy
data dir because at the time that note wasn't already on the Release Notes
of 1.4.8.

A few days later, I've made it: Stopped the aae via riak attach, restarted
all the nodes one by one removing the anti-entropy data in between.

The expected results didn't happened.. My level-db data dir has ~600G per
server and the anti-antropy data dir has ~120G, this seems to be quite a
lot :(
The cluster load is still high... Write and read times are inconstant and
both high.

I have a 6 machine cluster with level-db as backend. The total amount of
keys is about 2.5 billions.

Best regards!




On 8 April 2014 11:21, Timo Gatsonides  wrote:

&gt;
&gt; I also have 6 servers. Each server has about 2Tb of data. So maybe my
&gt; anti\\_entropy dir size is "normal".
&gt;
&gt; Kind regards,
&gt; Timo
&gt;
&gt; p.s. I'm using the multi\\_backend as I have some data only in memory
&gt; (riak\\_kv\\_memory\\_backend); all data on disk is in riak\\_kv\\_eleveldb\\_backend.
&gt;
&gt; &gt; Well, my anti-entropy folders in each machine have ~120G, It's quite a
&gt; lot!!!
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; I have ~600G of data per server and a cluster of 6 servers with
&gt; level-db. Just for comparison effects, what about you?
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Someone of basho, can you please advise on this one?
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Best regards! :)
&gt; &gt;
&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

