---
title: "Re: Servers keep dying. How to understand why?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-05-12T11:08:39-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11055"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg11054"
author_name: "Christian Dahlqvist"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-05-12T11:08:39-07:00
---


Hi Julien,

I was not able to access the logs based on the link you provided.

Could you please attach a copy of your app.config file so we can get a better 
understanding of the configuration of your cluster? Also, what is the 
specification of the machines in the cluster?

How much data do you have in the cluster and how are you querying it?

Best regards,

Christian



On 12 May 2013, at 19:11, Julien Genestoux  wrote:

&gt; Hi,
&gt; 
&gt; We are running a cluster of 5 servers, or at least trying to, because nodes 
&gt; seem to be dying 'randomly'
&gt; without us knowing any reason why. We don't have a great Erlang guy aboard, 
&gt; and the error logs are not
&gt; that verbose.
&gt; So I've just .tgz the whole log directory and I was hoping somebody could 
&gt; give us a clue.
&gt; It's there: https://www.dropbox.com/s/z9ezv0qlxgfhcyq/riak-died.tar.gz (might 
&gt; not be fully uploaded to dropbox yet!)
&gt; 
&gt; I've looked at the archive and some people said their server was dying 
&gt; because some object's size was just 
&gt; too big to allocate the whole memory. Maybe that's what we're seeing?
&gt; 
&gt; As one of our buckets is set with allow\\_mult, I am tempted to think that some 
&gt; object's size may be exploding.
&gt; However, we do actually try to resolve conflicts in our code. Any idea how to 
&gt; confirm and then debug that we 
&gt; have an issue there?
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks a lot for your precious help...
&gt; 
&gt; Julien
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

