---
title: "Can't create first user"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-06-23T22:35:38-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11331"
author_name: "Guy Morton"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-06-23T22:35:38-07:00
---


Hi people. I've seen posts where others have had this same issue, specifically 
this on the riak\\_cs issues list - https://github.com/basho/riak\\_cs/issues/529

Unfortunately the solution is not posted, if there is one. I have followed the 
instructions to be found here: 
http://docs.basho.com/riakcs/latest/tutorials/fast-track/Building-a-Local-Test-Environment/
 but that didn't help. I am still stuck with the same issue.

Help, please?

# curl -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -X POST 
http://localhost:8080/riak-cs/user -v --data '{"email":"guy.mor...@bksv.com", 
"name":"guy"}'
\\* About to connect() to localhost port 8080 (#0)
\\* Trying 127.0.0.1... connected
\\* Connected to localhost (127.0.0.1) port 8080 (#0)
&gt; POST /riak-cs/user HTTP/1.1
&gt; User-Agent: curl/7.21.0 (x86\\_64-pc-linux-gnu) libcurl/7.21.0 OpenSSL/0.9.8o 
&gt; zlib/1.2.3.4 libidn/1.15 libssh2/1.2.6
&gt; Host: localhost:8080
&gt; Accept: \\*/\\*
&gt; Content-Type: application/json
&gt; Content-Length: 45
&gt;
&lt; HTTP/1.1 503 Service Unavailable
&lt; Vary: Accept
&lt; Server: Riak CS
&lt; Location: http://localhost:8080/riak-cs/user
&lt; Date: Mon, 24 Jun 2013 05:21:13 GMT
&lt; Content-Type: application/xml
&lt; Content-Length: 192
&lt;
\\* Connection #0 to host localhost left intact
\\* Closing connection #0
xml version="1.0" 
encoding="UTF-8"?`ServiceUnavailable`Please reduce 
your request 
rate./riak-cs/user

--
Guy Morton
Web Development Manager
Brüel & Kjær EMS

This e-mail is confidential and may be read, copied and used only by the 
intended recipient. If you have received it in error, please contact the sender 
immediately by return e-mail. Please then delete the e-mail and do not disclose 
its contents to any other person.
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

