---
title: "Re: Riak 1.0.2 RC1"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-11-07T09:31:58-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05452"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg05449"
author_name: "Anthony Molinaro"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-11-07T09:31:58-08:00
---


Lets say I already have a system with a ring size of 1024 in 0.14.2,
should I wait to upgrade until this is sorted out? And how long will
that be? Where is this in terms of Basho's priorities?

You say stay under 1024, so I assume that means the max size you
recommend would be 512? Does this also apply to applications using
riak\_core? We have a riak\_core appliction which currently has about
75 nodes with 1024 partitions, should we not update riak\_core to
the version shipped in the 1.0.x releases.

Are there things that can be done if we require a 1024 ring size to
mitigate the issue? It appears the issue might only be during ring
changes, so might not be that awful?

Thanks,

-Anthony

On Sun, Nov 06, 2011 at 08:10:52PM -0700, Joseph Blomstedt wrote:
> > RE: large ring size warning in the release notes, is the performance
> > degradation linear below 256? That is, until the major release that fixes
> > this, is it best to keep ring sizes at 64 for best performance?
> 
> The large ring size warning in the release notes is predominately
> related to an issue with Riak's ring gossip functionality.
> Adding/removing nodes, changing bucket properties, and setting cluster
> metadata all result in a brief period (usually a few seconds) where
> gossip traffic increases significantly. The size of the ring
> determines both the number of gossip messages that occur during this
> window, as well as the size of each message. With large rings, it is
> possible that messages are generated faster than they can be handled,
> resulting in large message queues that impact cluster performance and
> tie up system memory until the message queues are fully drained. In
> general, there is no problem as long as your hardware is fast enough
> to process the brief spike in gossip traffic in close to real time.
> Concerning this specific issue, choosing a ring size smaller than the
> maximum you can handle does not provide any additional performance
> gains.
> 
> However, unrelated to this issue, there are general performance
> considerations related to ring size versus the number of nodes in your
> cluster. Given a fixed number of nodes, a larger ring results in more
> vnodes per node. This allows more process concurrency which may
> improvement performance. However, each vnode runs it's own backend
> instance that has it's own set of on-disk files, and competing
> reads/writes to different files may result in additional I/O
> contention than having fewer vnodes per node. The overall performance
> is going to depend largely on your OS, your file system, and your
> traffic pattern. So, it's hard to give specific hard and fast rules.
> The other issue is 2I performance. Secondary indexes send request to a
> covering set of vnodes, which works out to ring\_size / N requests;
> therefore increasing the ring\_size without increasing N leads to more
> 2I requests. Again, the right answer depends largely on your use case.
> 
> Overall, I believe we normally recommend between 10 and 50 vnodes per
> node, with the ring size rounded up to the next power of two.
> Personally, I think 16 vnodes per node is a good number, which matches
> the common 64 partition, 4 node Riak cluster. Thus, choosing a ring
> size based on that ratio and your expected number of future nodes is a
> reasonable choice. Just be sure to stay under 1024 until the issue
> with gossip overloading the cluster is resolved.
> 
> -Joe
> 
> On Sat, Nov 5, 2011 at 9:49 AM, Jim Adler  wrote:
> > RE: large ring size warning in the release notes, is the performance
> > degradation linear below 256? That is, until the major release that fixes
> > this, is it best to keep ring sizes at 64 for best performance?
> > Jim
> >
> > Sent from my phone. Please forgive the typos.
> > On Nov 4, 2011, at 7:20 PM, Jared Morrow  wrote:
> >
> > As we've mentioned earlier, the 1.0.2 release of Riak is coming soon.   Like
> > we did with Riak 1.0.0, we are provided a release candidate for test before
> > we release 1.0.2 final.
> > You can find the packages here:
> > http://downloads.basho.com/riak/riak-1.0.2rc1/
> > The release notes have been updated and can be found here:
> >  https://github.com/basho/riak/blob/1.0/RELEASE-NOTES.org
> > Thank you, as always, for continuing to provide bug reports and feedback.
> > -Jared
> >
> > \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> > riak-users mailing list
> > riak-users@lists.basho.com
> > http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> >
> > \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> > riak-users mailing list
> > riak-users@lists.basho.com
> > http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> >
> >
> 
> 
> 
> -- 
> Joseph Blomstedt 
> Software Engineer
> Basho Technologies, Inc.
> http://www.basho.com/
> 
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

-- 
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Anthony Molinaro 

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

