---
title: "Re: Riak Search performance experiences ?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-10-18T11:36:30-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01323"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg01284"
author_name: "Rusty Klophaus"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-10-18T11:36:30-07:00
---


Hi Neville,

Thanks! Performance comparisons are tricky business. Any time you compare a
distributed system to a non-distributed system on a single machine, the
non-distributed system is going to be much, much faster simply because it
can skip all of the overhead needed to make the system distributed.

So for 1M 1K docs, which can easily fit on one machine, Lucene will be much
faster. A more apples-to-apples question, and one we haven't benchmarked
yet, is how Riak Search compares to something like ElasticSearch. I expect
each system to have it's own unique strengths and weaknesses depending on
the type of documents, the ratio of reads-to-writes, the number of replicas,
and the type of failure scenarios that are tested.

We haven't done much comparison with distributed Lucene projects yet because
Riak Search is first and foremost intended to be a tightly integration index
into Riak KV data. The Solr interface is a nice bonus. It helps users
familiar with Solr get started with Riak Search more easily and it gives
users an additional way to access there data, so it is something we will
continue to enhance over future releases.

Best,
Rusty


On Wed, Oct 13, 2010 at 11:22 PM, Neville Burnell  wrote:

> Hi,
>
> Congratulations on releasing Riak Search - effectively implementing Lucene
> and Solr in Erlang is a great effort!
>
> Since Riak Search has been in use for some time with beta testers, I'm
> wondering if Basho might share some performance insights, especially if its
> possible to compare customers who were using Solr and have switched to Riak
> Search, which would be our use case.
>
> For example, would Riak Search performance be comparable to Solr over say
> 1M 1K docs, assuming sufficient RAM and fast disk ?
>
> Thanks for any performance insights from your beta testing experiences
>
> Kind Regards
>
> Neville
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

