---
title: "RE: Import tables/data from Microsoft SQL Server"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-11-01T11:53:46-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg09129"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg09123"
author_name: "Kevin Burton"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-11-01T11:53:46-07:00
---


Sorry for the newbie question but is node.js part of the Java distribution
for a Ubuntu Linux Server or do I need to get it as a package? How is it
installed? I am assuming that once node.js is installed then the code will
be just like any other Java app. Right?

 

From: Jeff Kirkell [mailto:jeff.kirk...@gmail.com] 
Sent: Thursday, November 01, 2012 1:25 PM
To: Kevin Burton
Cc: riak-users
Subject: Re: Import tables/data from Microsoft SQL Server

 

This Microsoft blog post gives a sample how to query the SQL Server

http://blogs.msdn.com/b/sqlphp/archive/2012/06/08/introducing-the-microsoft-
driver-for-node-js-for-sql-server.aspx

 

In the record loop, you use a Riak Node driver like riak-js.

 

I can't share the scripts I wrote due to work but I can answer anything you
may have outside of providing the code.

 

Thanks,

Jeff

 

On Thu, Nov 1, 2012 at 2:09 PM, Kevin Burton 
wrote:

Would you mind sharing that app? If you have time since I am not familiar
with Node.js would you mind showing me how you ran it as well as the source.
Thank you.

 

From: Jeff Kirkell [mailto:jeff.kirk...@gmail.com] 
Sent: Thursday, November 01, 2012 1:07 PM
To: Kevin Burton
Cc: riak-users
Subject: Re: Import tables/data from Microsoft SQL Server

 

There is nothing that I have come across. What I did in the past was run a
quick Node.js app that pulled data out of SQL Server using one of the
available drivers and serialize and write to Riak. It is not perfect, and
may be slow depending on the amount of data but it does work.

 

Jeff

 

On Thu, Nov 1, 2012 at 1:40 PM, Kevin Burton 
wrote:

I would like some scripts or programming tools that I could use to transfer
existing data held in Microsoft SQL Server databases into Riak. Do such
tools exist?


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

 

 

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

