---
title: "Re: Storing Sets in a new backend"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-12-21T17:02:52-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01834"
author_name: "Anthony Molinaro"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-12-21T17:02:52-08:00
---


Hi,

Just wondering if anyone had an opinions on this idea?

Thanks,

-Anthony

On Fri, Dec 17, 2010 at 03:20:58PM -0800, Anthony Molinaro wrote:
> Hi,
> 
> I have a situation where I need to store sets of integers as efficiently
> as possible. In order to do so I was going to implement a custom backend
> and alter the semantics of get/put/delete, such that
> 
> put (K, [{i,V}]) - insert one or more V into list at K
> put (K, [{d,V}]) - delete one or more V from list at K
> get (K) - returns list at K
> delete (K) - delete entire list
> 
> I'll probably keep the lists in sorted order via insertion sort so that
> a quorum read can easily determine equality.
> 
> My backend would probably be a linked in driver which mmaps a file so
> I can keep this stuff as tightly packed in memory as possible.
> 
> We did something similar using just riak\_core for a different system,
> but for that system we had a custom thrift frontend and didn't adhere
> to the riak\_kv api.
> 
> So I was wondering, what sort of issues might I see with this sort of
> use of riak? Is there another way I'm missing which would allow me
> to efficiently do this?
> 
> I expect in the end to have approximately 500 million lists of integers
> with most in the ~10 integer range with a few up to the ~200 integer
> range. Also, I'll probably have a timestamp associated with each
> integer and want to use map-reduce to expire entries which are too old.
> 
> Anway, I realize this might be an odd usage, and I can always fallback
> to what we did before which was a thrift server on top up riak\_core with
> a custom datastore, but I figured if I could use the same API as riak\_kv
> with a custom backend it might save me a little time.
> 
> -Anthony
> 
> -- 
> ------------------------------------------------------------------------
> Anthony Molinaro 

-- 
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Anthony Molinaro 

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

