---
title: "RE: riak_search moving forward"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-06-07T08:02:54-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03595"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg03586"
author_name: "Jasinek, Jason"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-06-07T08:02:54-07:00
---


David,

Are there plans to add in additional Erlang Analyzers that would provide 
additional terms? Analyzers that I would like to see added would including 
stemming and ngrams.

Jason

-----Original Message-----
From: riak-users-boun...@lists.basho.com 
[mailto:riak-users-boun...@lists.basho.com] On Behalf Of David Smith
Sent: Monday, June 06, 2011 5:33 PM
To: riak-users
Subject: riak\_search moving forward

Hi all,

One of the things we've got cooking at Basho HQ is a plan to roll the
functionality currently in the riak\_search project into the default
Riak distribution. This means that using riak\_search will become a
matter of flipping a configuration switch versus running a whole
separate instance. This will make it easier to use and deploy .

As part of this merging process, we've realized that while having
Java-based analyzers is useful in some circumstances, it also imposes
a lot of overhead per search-query (if you're using it) and adds an
unwieldy dependency on the JDK to the Riak server. All the deployments
we're aware of do NOT use the Java-based analyzers; i.e. the default,
Erlang-based analyzers provide the necessary functionality with much
lower overhead.

So, I'm soliciting YOUR feedback on the removal of Java-based
analyzers in riak\_search. Are you using it in production and would you
miss it if it was gone?

Thanks,

D.

--
Dave Smith
Director, Engineering
Basho Technologies, Inc.
diz...@basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

DISCLAIMER: This message (including any files transmitted with it) may contain 
confidential and / or proprietary information, is the property of Interactive 
Data Corporation and / or its subsidiaries and is directed only to the 
addressee(s). If you are not the designated recipient or have reason to believe 
you received this message in error, please delete this message from your system 
and notify the sender immediately. An unintended recipient's disclosure, 
copying, distribution or use of this message, or any attachments, is prohibited 
and may be unlawful.

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

