---
title: "Re: Does Java client support querying large amounts of data from	Riak? What is the JSON parse/serialize overhead for such Queries?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-09-28T11:34:03-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04907"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04901"
author_name: "Ryan Zezeski"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-09-28T11:34:03-07:00
---


Harshal,

Harshal,

If I understand correctly you are trying to retrieve a set of objects that
match a given search query?

1: mapreduce will not go thru the entire key list if you feed it a search
query on input, only the matched objects

2: to rule out any funkiness in the java client have you tried the queries
via curl as well?

The nominal latency is going to highly depend on many factors including
network, # of objects matched, backend used, machine specs, # of nodes, # of
concurrent queries, etc. My first question would be what is the average
result set size coming back for these 4 second latencies (i.e. how many
objects are matched by the query)?


-Ryan

On Wed, Sep 28, 2011 at 2:15 PM, Harshal Dhir
wrote:

> Hi,
>
> We currently using riak java client 0.15.0-SNAPSHOT, but there is no better
> interface for RiakSearch at the moment. We are trying to fetch data from a
> bucket with million rows, here is a gist of issues we are facing with
> different approaches:
>
> - MapReduce:
> - Using mapreduce, the data response is just too slow due to the
> fact that this is a O(N) operation of going through the keys list.
> - Solr Client:
> - Using Solr Client, we are able to query but the response takes a
> long time about 4seconds to return a nominal result is still slow. [I 
> heard
> the normal response time is approx 200ms]
>
> Is there a way in the current java client to fetch large amount of data in
> nominal time.
>
> What is the recommended approach of saving / retrieving / querying this
> data in the fastest possible way?
>
> Thanks
> Harshal
>
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

