---
title: "Re: 2i for single-result lookup"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-11-07T18:20:00-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05465"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg05464"
author_name: "Nate Lawson"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-11-07T18:20:00-08:00
---


Ok, then 2I will work fine for what you're doing if you're going to keep adding 
fields like that. You can just use the binary type for the 2I keys (\_bin).

http://basho.com/blog/technical/2011/09/14/Secondary-Indexes-in-Riak/

You first said you were concerned about the query performance due to the 
covering set access and that you only had 2 unique fields. That's why I 
suggested you create a manual index (either email or userid) to lookup the 
other key. But with this additional info you mention, I think you should just 
use 2I since that's one of its main purposes.

-Nate

On Nov 7, 2011, at 6:11 PM, Greg Pascale wrote:

> Hi Nate,
> 
> There are only 2 secondary keys for now (in addition to the primary key), but 
> this number will grow to 5 or more pretty soon.
> 
> I think when you say "insert each separately", you mean create 2 duplicate 
> objects, one keyed by username and one keyed by email. Or do you mean create 
> one object keyed by username, and then another object containing the username 
> and keyed by email (a manual index if you will)? Code complexity is the main 
> reason I'd like to avoid a solution like this. Suddenly a user create 
> operation requires n writes to be considered a success. If one fails, I need 
> to delete the others, etc… It quickly becomes a pain.
> 
> I don't know what you mean by "some relationship between the keys"
> 
> -- 
> Greg
> Clipboard
> 
> On Monday, November 7, 2011 at 5:59 PM, Nate Lawson wrote:
> 
>> On Nov 7, 2011, at 5:45 PM, Greg Pascale wrote:
>> 
>>> Hi,
>>> 
>>> I'm thinking about using 2i for a certain piece of my system, but I'm 
>>> worried that the document-based partitioning may make it suboptimal.
>>> 
>>> The issue is that the secondary fields I want to query over (email and 
>>> username) are unique, so each will only ever map to one value. Since 2i 
>>> queries a coverage set, but I'm only ever looking for one result, it's 
>>> going to be hitting n-1 machines needlessly.
>>> 
>>> So, what I'm looking to understand is how much overhead a single-result 2i 
>>> lookup like this will incur vs. a primary-key lookup, or even vs. search. 
>>> Search doesn't intuitively feel like the right tool here, but I wonder if 
>>> it may actually be preferable since it uses term-based partitioning.
>>> 
>>> Thanks,
>> 
>> 
>> If it's only 2 keys, why not insert each separately? You will double your 
>> total number of keys in the db. But both search and 2I are creating extra 
>> keys anyway in their private indices, so it has the same or worse effect on 
>> total storage as doubling your primary keys. And query efficiency is worse, 
>> as you point out.
>> 
>> 2I and search are more useful where there's some relationship between the 
>> keys, not when they're fully independent as you point out.
>> 
>> -Nate
>> 
>> 
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> 


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

