---
title: "Re: Riak and Clojure"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-12-08T16:48:12-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05900"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg05899"
author_name: "Alvaro Videla"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-12-08T16:48:12-08:00
---


Hi Kresten,

A while ago I did some Clojure integration with Riak and I could even run m/r 
jobs in Clojure using code as data as you say.

I used the JInterface to have remote nodes as Erlang workers in a similar 
design of the Javascript workers. 

Sadly my code is totally outdated now but It Worked™ 

Please node that this was written a year ago or so when I was learning Clojure, 
so please don't set me on fire: https://github.com/videlalvaro/closerl 

Some related blog posts here: 
http://videlalvaro.github.com/2010/08/closer-clojure-erlang-bridge.html and 
here: 
http://videlalvaro.github.com/2010/08/riak-map-reduce-queries-in-clojure.html 
showing what I could do back then.

Regards,

Alvaro

On Dec 9, 2011, at 1:40 AM, Kresten Krab Thorup wrote:

> If someone was to enable m/r jobs in clojure that could be an outstanding 
> integration, exactly because clojure represents code as data .. the 
> intergration could be so smooth. With JavaScript you have this ugliness of 
> putting scripts inside strings that makes it so painful.
> 
> Perhaps using clojurescript (clj->js compiler) w/runtime library installed 
> inside riak could do it.
> 
> Kresten
> 
> 
> Mobile: + 45 2343 4626 | Skype: krestenkrabthorup | Twitter: @drkrab
> Trifork A/S | Margrethepladsen 4 | DK- 8000 Aarhus C | Phone : +45 8732 
> 8787 | www.trifork.com
> 
> 
> On Dec 8, 2011, at 10:02 PM, Mark Phillips wrote:
> 
>> Hi All,
>> 
>> Anyone out there using Riak with Clojure in some capacity? Or wanting
>> to use Riak with Clojure? I was hoping I might borrow a few minutes of
>> your time for the betterment of Riak and Clojure. (I'm not afraid to
>> use stickers and t-shirts to make it worth your while.)
>> 
>> If this is you, please email me off-list.
>> 
>> Thanks.
>> 
>> Mark
>> 
>> Community Manager
>> Basho Technologies
>> wiki.basho.com
>> twitter.com/pharkmillups
>> 
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> 
> 
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

Sent form my Nokia 1100




\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

