---
title: "Re: RSpec using Ripple"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-12-05T06:31:19-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05856"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg05855"
author_name: "Sean Cribbs"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-12-05T06:31:19-08:00
---


Run the 'ripple:test' generator, you will get some lines added to your
spec\_helper.rb (before/after hooks) and some boilerplate for configuring
the Ripple::TestServer. Then you simply need to edit the config/ripple.yml
to add the "source" key to the test environment (tell it where your local
`riak` and `riak-admin` scripts are installed). Note that the latest test
server does support Riak 1.0 but it does not include support for secondary
indexes.

On Mon, Dec 5, 2011 at 2:59 AM, Yehuda Zargrov  wrote:

> Hi,\*\*\*\*
>
> \*\* \*\*
>
> I know that ripple does have support for testing rails with RSpec but I
> can’t find any documentation on this (or an example).\*\*\*\*
>
> \*\* \*\*
>
> Can anyone share an example or know where I can read more about this?\*\*\*\*
>
> \*\* \*\*
>
> Thanks,\*\*\*\*
>
> \*\*\*\*
>
> [image: Description:
> C:\Users\Yehuda\AppData\Roaming\Microsoft\Signatures\logo.gif]\*\*\*\*
>
> \*Yehuda Zargrov\*\*
> \*Software Engineer\*\*\*\*
>
> \*Conduit Your Site\* \*\*\*\*
>
> \*t:\* 972.8.9461713 ext +314 | \*m:\* +972503473119 | \*f:\* +97286382140
> \*\*\*\*
>
>
> This message may contain confidential and/or privileged information. It is
> intended to be read only by the individual or entity to whom it is
> addressed or by their designee.
> If the reader of this message is not the intended recipient, you are on
> notice that any uses, copy, disclose or distribution of this message, in
> any form, is strictly prohibited.
> If you have received this message in error, please notify the sender by
> reply email or by telephone and delete or destroy any copy of this message.
> Thank you.
>
> \*\*\*\*
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>


-- 
Sean Cribbs 
Developer Advocate
Basho Technologies, Inc.
http://www.basho.com/
<>\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

