---
title: "Re: Does Java client support querying large amounts of data	from	Riak? What is the JSON parse/serialize overhead for such Queries?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-09-28T11:52:29-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04914"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04910"
author_name: "Russell Brown"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-09-28T11:52:29-07:00
---



On 28 Sep 2011, at 19:44, Harshal Dhir wrote:

> Hi Ryan,
> 
> Thanks for your response.
> 
> To answer your question. 
> 
> #1: mapreduce will not go thru the entire key list if you feed it a search 
> query on input, only the matched objects [Understood, but the java client 
> doesn’t have a mapreduce search function. We did a custom implementation of 
> this but the response time was still "very" slow.]

It does now, in master. And 2i will be landing tomorrow. And a 1.0 release on 
Friday or Monday.

> #2: to rule out any funkiness in the java client have you tried the queries 
> via curl as well? Have tried this as well, the response is significantly 
> quicker than the above mapreduce but still not fast enough.

Can you clarify, are you saying a M/R over curl is significantly faster than 
it is with Java client? Or are you saying user a solr search with curl is 
faster than a m/r with the Java client?

> 
> # of Objects: 10,000+ 
> Backend Used: bitcask
> # of nodes: 5
> Machine Specs: Amazon EC2 (Large Instance)
> 
> 
> Thanks
> 
> Harshal Dhir | Technical Architect
> 
> solutionset
> P: 510-214-3519 Twitter: @harshaldhir 
> 85 Second Street, San Francisco, CA 94105
> Twitter: @harshaldhir MSN: hars...@solutionset.com Jabber: 
> harshal.d...@gmail.com
> www.solutionset.com
> 
> This message is intended for the addressee(s) only and may contain 
> confidential or privileged 
> information. Any use of this information by persons other than addressee(s) 
> is prohibited. If you 
> have received this message in error, please reply to the sender and delete or 
> destroy all copies.
> 
> 
> 
> From: Ryan Zezeski 
> Date: Wed, 28 Sep 2011 11:33:56 -0700
> To: Harshal Dhir 
> Cc: "riak-users@lists.basho.com" 
> Subject: Re: Does Java client support querying large amounts of data from 
> Riak? What is the JSON parse/serialize overhead for such Queries?
> 
> Harshal,
> 
> Harshal,
> 
> If I understand correctly you are trying to retrieve a set of objects that 
> match a given search query?
> 
> 1: mapreduce will not go thru the entire key list if you feed it a search 
> query on input, only the matched objects
> 
> 2: to rule out any funkiness in the java client have you tried the queries 
> via curl as well?
> 
> The nominal latency is going to highly depend on many factors including 
> network, # of objects matched, backend used, machine specs, # of nodes, # of 
> concurrent queries, etc. My first question would be what is the average 
> result set size coming back for these 4 second latencies (i.e. how many 
> objects are matched by the query)?
> 
> 
> -Ryan
> 
> On Wed, Sep 28, 2011 at 2:15 PM, Harshal Dhir  
> wrote:
>> Hi,
>> 
>> We currently using riak java client 0.15.0-SNAPSHOT, but there is no better 
>> interface for RiakSearch at the moment. We are trying to fetch data from a 
>> bucket with million rows, here is a gist of issues we are facing with 
>> different approaches:
>> MapReduce:
>> Using mapreduce, the data response is just too slow due to the fact that 
>> this is a O(N) operation of going through the keys list.
>> Solr Client:
>> Using Solr Client, we are able to query but the response takes a long time 
>> about 4seconds to return a nominal result is still slow. [I heard the normal 
>> response time is approx 200ms]
>> Is there a way in the current java client to fetch large amount of data in 
>> nominal time. 
>> 
>> What is the recommended approach of saving / retrieving / querying this data 
>> in the fastest possible way?
>> 
>> Thanks
>> Harshal 
>> 
>> 
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>> 
> 
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

