---
title: "Re: upgrade from 0.10 to 0.13 while full cluster shutdown"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-11-16T07:27:47-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01556"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg01544"
author_name: "David Smith"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-11-16T07:27:47-08:00
---


I did some splenunking -- looks like the bulk of the config is
unchanged between 0.10 and 0.13. You \_should\_ be able to your config
file as is.

Obviously you should test this upgrade on a non-production cluster first! :)

D.

On Mon, Nov 15, 2010 at 10:50 AM, Colin Surprenant
 wrote:
> My configuration is mostly untouched from the default, other than the
> innostore config. Is there anything special involved in the
> configuration migration?
>
> What would be the best way for me to assert the innostore storage file
> compatibility between 0.10 and 0.13 without having to dig and analyse
> the changelogs between these versions?
>
> I haven't found any comprehensive notes on the upgrade process
> involved between versions. Is there anything?
>
> Thanks for your help.
> Colin
>
> On Mon, Nov 15, 2010 at 11:54 AM, David Smith  wrote:
>> 0.10 -> 0.13 is a big change; most of the pain is going to be related
>> to getting your configuration migrated. Storage into innostore should
>> be relatively unchanged, I believe. Assuming your config is migrated,
>> you should just be able to start it up with the same data files.
>>
>> It's obviously a good idea to backup your innostore files before you
>> do anything. :)
>>
>> D.
>>
>> On Fri, Nov 12, 2010 at 3:01 PM, Colin Surprenant
>>  wrote:
>>> Hi,
>>>
>>> What would be the most (time) efficient way for me to upgrade my 3
>>> nodes cluster from 0.10 to current 0.13?
>>>
>>> It is not a problem for me to completely shutdown the cluster for the
>>> upgrade operation, unless it takes longer than a few hours.
>>>
>>> My cluster is configured with innostore and each node holds approx
>>> 250G of data.
>>>
>>> I do not think riak-admin backup/restore is an option since it is way
>>> too slow. The last time I checked, it did not finish dumping a single
>>> node after 24 hours...
>>>
>>> Thanks,
>>> Colin
>>>
>>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>>> riak-users mailing list
>>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>>
>>
>

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

