---
title: "Re: Riak n00b questions"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-03-14T07:32:06-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg02633"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg02628"
author_name: "Ishwar"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-03-14T07:32:06-07:00
---


Hi Sean,

Thanks for the quick response. I'll use load-balancers to distribute the load.

>>2. My familiarity with erlang and Javascript is minimal. Would somebody 
>>answer if the following things are doable/advisable to do?
>>     a. Most of the processes I want to run on the data are in python and 
>>php. Is it possible to call these processes from erlang/javascript?
>>
>It is not currently, but we are looking into the feasibility of supporting 
>other languages.  However, I might say that if you're already doing Python and 
>PHP, it would be worth your while (and not difficult) to learn JavaScript.

We already have a whole bunch of processing on the data written in Python and 
PHP, and porting them to Javascript is (1) very tedious, and (2) Javascript 
does not support the required functionality. For example, we do a bunch of NLP 
analysis on the data.

Given these, is it advisable if I expose these processes as webservices and 
call them from javascript/erlang?


>     b. I've been looking for MapReduce tutorials for python client, but 
>couldn't find any. Can somebody point to a sample MapReduce from python 
>client, for example, to retrieve multiple records from Riak? (Given a set of 
>keys [1,2,3,4], retrieve the records for these from Riak using MapReduce).
>>
>
>I don't know of any, but we have a decent number of Pythonistas on the list. 
>Hopefully one of them can help you out.

Pythonistas, where art thou? :)

--
Regards,
Ishwar.


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

