---
title: "Re: Riak Search"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-10-16T10:01:24-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08937"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg08933"
author_name: "gordyt"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-10-16T10:01:24-07:00
---


Pavel as an alternative to re-writing the objects to cause them to be indexed, 
you may invoke what I call a map operation with side-effects.

You define an Erlang map-phase function as follows:


map\_reindex({error,notfound}, \_, \_) ->
 [];
map\_reindex(RiakObject, \_, \_) ->
 riak\_search\_kv\_hook:precommit(RiakObject),
 [].


You want to run that against all of the keys in the bucket by posting a mapred 
job like this:

{
 "inputs": "",
 "query": [
 {
 "map": {
 "function": "map\_reindex", 
 "language": "erlang",
 "module": ""
 }
 }
 ],
 "timeout": 
}


We have used this technique to re-index rather large clusters and it runs 
quickly because you are doing it in parallel across all of the nodes in the 
cluster.

-- gordon



On Oct 16, 2012, at 07:44 , Ryan Zezeski  wrote:

> 
> 
> On Sun, Oct 14, 2012 at 12:33 AM, Pavel Kogan  wrote:
> 
> 1) Is search enabling has any impact on read latency/throughput?
> 
> If you are reading and searching at the same time there is a good chance it 
> will. It will cause more disk seeks.
> 
> 2) Is search enabling has any impact on RAM usage?
> 
> Yes, the index engine behind Riak Search makes heavy usage of Erlang ETS 
> tables. Each partition has an in-memory buffer as well as an in-memory 
> offset table for every segment. It also uses a temporary ETS table for every 
> write to store posting data. The ETS system limit can even become an issue 
> in overload scenarios.
> 
> 3) In production we have no search enabled. What is the best way to 
> enable search without stop production? I thought about something like:
> 1) Enable search node after node.
> 
> You could change the app env dynamically but that's only half the problem. 
> The other half is then starting the Riak Search application. I think 
> application:start(merge\_index) followed by application:start(riak\_search) 
> should work but I'm not 100% sure and this has not been tested. You'll also 
> want to make sure to edit all app.configs so that it is persistent.
> 
> 
> 2) Execute some night script that runs on all keys and overwrite them back
> with proper mime type.
> 
> Yes, you'll want to install the commit hook on the buckets you wish to index. 
> Then you'll want to do a streaming list-keys or bucket map-reduce and 
> re-write the data.
> 
> 
> 4) If we see that search overhead is something we can't handle, is there 
> simple
> way to disable it without stop production?
> 
> I think the best course of action in this case would be to disable the commit 
> hook. But you would have to keep track of anything written during this time 
> and re-write it after re-installing the hook. If you don't then you'll have 
> to re-index everything because you don't know what you missed.
> 
> 5) In what case we would need repair? It is said - on replica loss, but if I 
> understand 
> correct we have 3 replicas on different nodes don't we? If it happens how 
> difficult and
> long would it be for large cluster (about 100 nodes)?
> 
> Repair is on a per partition basis. Number of nodes doesn't come into play. 
> Repair is very specific in that it requires the adjacent partitions to be in 
> a good, convergent state. If they aren't then repair isn't much help. 
> 
> A lot of these entropy issues go away in Yokozuna. Repairing indexes is done 
> automatically, in the background, in an efficient manner. There is no need 
> to re-write data or run manual repair commands.
> 
> -Z
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

