---
title: "Re: How many TB to be store in riak"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-03-01T09:48:48-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06817"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06752"
author_name: "Mark Phillips"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-03-01T09:48:48-08:00
---


2012/2/26 郎咸武 :
> Hi Mark,firsrt thanks
> If i usring file.erl r/w that big file, to store disk with zfs (Dynamic
> File System).
> How about this.

Hmm. To be honest, I'm not sure if that would work, though I'm
inclined to say no.

Mark


> thank you
>
> jason
>
>
>
> 在2012-02-24，"Mark Phillips"  写道：
>
> -----原始邮件-----
> 发件人:"Mark Phillips" 
> 发送时间:2012年2月24日 星期五
>
> 收件人:"郎咸武" 
> 抄送:"riak-users@lists.basho.com" 
> 主题:Re: How many TB to be store in riak
>
> Hi Jason,
>
> Random reads in LevelDB won't be an issue. It's also worth noting that the
> bitcask backend will do at most one disk seek per read but this comes in
> exchange for keeping you key directory in RAM. I still think Level is the
> way to go for you.
>
> The 50MB file size will probably be an issue. We don't usually recommend
> anything over 20MB at this point, and even that might be problematic.
>
> Mark
>
>
>
> 2012/2/21 郎咸武
>>
>> Hi mark,
>> hmm you are right, I only have about 30TBs at present.
>> may be individual is 50MB.
>> There is a new requirement:
>> Random read any file. Is it work well?
>> Thanks again.
>> Jason
>>
>>
>> 在2012-02-22，"Mark Phillips"  写道：
>>
>> -----原始邮件-----
>> 发件人:"Mark Phillips" 
>> 发送时间:2012年2月22日 星期三
>> 收件人:"郎咸武" 
>> 抄送:"riak-users@lists.basho.com" 
>> 主题:Re: How many TB to be store in riak
>>
>>
>> On second thought, let's assume you have 100TBs worth of photos. (I'm sure
>> there are a few individual photos somewhere on the internet that come it at
>> 100TBs but I'm betting you don't have them).
>>
>> Riak should work well for this.
>>
>> \* I'm assuming you'll have a lot of keys, so the LevelDB backend is
>> probably going to be best for local storage. We are also shipping LevelDB
>> with Snappy compression enabled as of 1.1, so this will help with the disk
>> storage requirements.
>> \* Try to keep your file size under 20MB if possible.
>> \* Keep in mind that 100TB with a default of 3 for a replication will yield
>> 300TB of raw data.
>>
>> Feel free to fire more questions as they come to mind.
>>
>> Hope that helps.
>>
>> Mark
>>
>>
>>
>> On Tue, Feb 21, 2012 at 3:59 PM, Mark Phillipswrote:
>>>
>>> Hi Jason,
>>>
>>> I just want to make sure I understand your question correctly:
>>>
>>> Do you have 100TBs of photos you are thinking of storing in Riak? Or one
>>> photo that's 100TB?
>>>
>>> Mark
>>>
>>> 2012/2/21 郎咸武
>>>>
>>>>
>>>> Hi all,
>>>> How many TB to be store in riak?
>>>> Now i have about100TB picture. I want to store with riak. But i am not
>>>> sure that is ok.
>>>> Answer me, please.
>>>> Thanks.
>>>> jason
>>>>
>>>>
>>>>
>>>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>>>> riak-users mailing list
>>>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>>>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>>>
>>>
>>
>>
>>
>
>
>

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

