---
title: "Re: Slow inserts"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-04-11T12:56:46-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg02967"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg02966"
author_name: "Dan Reverri"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-04-11T12:56:46-07:00
---


What are the put\_fsm timings across the nodes as reported by "riak-admin
status" after running the script?
node\_put\_fsm\_time\_mean
node\_put\_fsm\_time\_median
node\_put\_fsm\_time\_95
node\_put\_fsm\_time\_99
node\_put\_fsm\_time\_100


Thanks,
Dan

Daniel Reverri
Developer Advocate
Basho Technologies, Inc.
d...@basho.com


On Mon, Apr 11, 2011 at 12:37 PM, Jens Rantil wrote:

> Hi,
>
> By "not doing anything" I meant they were idling apart from the riak/Erlang
> processes running.
>
> And yes, riak-admin status shows all five nodes according in ring\_members
> according to [1].
>
> [1] 
> http://wiki.basho.com/Basic-Cluster-Setup.html
>
> Thanks,
> Jens
>
> On 11 apr 2011, at 18:57, "Dan Reverri"  wrote:
>
> Can you explain what you mean by "Four of the nodes were not doing
> anything else"?
>
> Does "riak-admin status" show the appropriate nodes in the ring?
>
> Thanks,
> Dan
>
>
> Daniel Reverri
> Developer Advocate
> Basho Technologies, Inc.
> d...@basho.com
>
>
> On Mon, Apr 11, 2011 at 9:00 AM, Jens Rantil < 
> jens.ran...@telavox.se> wrote:
>
>> Hi,
>>
>>
>>
>> I have set up a 5-node test environment to give Riak a test run. I wrote a
>> Python script ( 
>> http://pastebin.com/geQ00Ngb) that put 53780 key-values into my cluster.
>> Using round robin, 11 threads inserted these values in ~70 seconds. This
>> means an average of ~750 key-values/second. Is this the expected speed of
>> inserts? It seems quite slow. The Mozilla benchmark 
>> (
>> http://blog.mozilla.com/data/2010/08/16/benchmarking-riak-for-the-mozilla-test-pilot-project/)
>> reached > 1500 ops/second for significantly bigger values than my benchmark.
>>
>>
>>
>> Additional information:
>>
>> \* Four of the nodes were not doing anything else.
>>
>> \* n\_val=3
>>
>> \* For every insert, w=1 and dw=0.
>>
>> \* All nodes are using riak\_0.14.1-1\_amd64.deb and I have not changed any
>> of the defaults settings except Erlang -cookie and -name.
>>
>>
>>
>> Thanks,
>>
>> Jens Rantil
>>
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> 
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>
>>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

