---
title: "A couple of questions about Riak"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-02-16T01:07:47-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06615"
author_name: "Jerome Renard"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-02-16T01:07:47-08:00
---


Hello,

I am really interested into Riak but I would like to know if my goals
can be achieved with for my project.

The use case is the following :

- I need to support 10 000 writes/second minimum. Object size will be
from 1kb to 5kb

- I need to organize data in buckets. Bucket 'dc1' would store all my
data from data center one, bucket 'dc2' would store all my data from
data center two, etc. The size of a bucket is going to grow large
really quickly; (Would links be a more relevant alternative ?)

- I need to search on these data : full-text search + facets. Searches
will most likely be date based range queries;

- Those data are meant to expire after a certain period of time, so I
will have to run large delete operations every week/month/year.

- I can get a replication factor of 2 if needed instead of 3 by default;

- I need to get my disk space back when I remove data. This may sounds
odd to some users, but people who come from a MySQL/InnoDB
background know that removing large amounts of data does not mean you
will get your disk space back ;)

Based on the use case described below my questions are:

- I am sure Riak can achieve the required write speed. But is there
any hardware recommandations for storing Tb of quickly growing data ?

- Which storage backend would be the most relevant to me ? Bitcast or LevelDB ?

- Does riak-search support facetted search ? (I would say yes but I
found no documentation in the wiki about that)

- Will it be a problem if I decide to run Riak on ZFS + compression enabled ?

If you need any more details feel free to ask.

Thanks in advance for your feedback.

Best Regards,

--
Jérôme Renard
http://39web.fr | http://jrenard.info | http://twitter.com/jeromerenard

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

