---
title: "Re: Newbie question 3/3"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-01-09T14:54:11-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06190"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06173"
author_name: "Ryan Zezeski"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-01-09T14:54:11-08:00
---


John,

As you already seem to understand, Riak doesn't provide a way to make
multiple ops atomic. Part of the reason is because Riak's main focus thus
far has been availability. Distributed transactions would work, but at the
cost of availability. I think a flaw with the redo log approach is that
you need to serialize all operations to A & B through \_one\_ client to keep
from reading an inconsistent state.

A much simpler option, if you can bend your data, is to combine A and B
into one object.

-Ryan

On Mon, Jan 9, 2012 at 12:33 AM, John DeTreville wrote:

> (An earlier post seems not to have gone through. My apologies in the
> eventual case of a duplicate.)
>
> I'm thinking of using Riak to replace a large Oracle system, and I'm
> trying to understand its guarantees. I have a few introductory questions;
> this is the third of three.
>
> I would like to do two updates atomically, but of course I cannot. I
> imagine I could construct my own redo log, and perform a sequence of
> operations something like:
>
> write redo log entry (timestamp, A's update, B's update) to redo log
> update A
> update B
> delete redo log entry from redo log
>
> Asynchronously, I could read dangling entries from the redo log and repeat
> them, deleting them upon success. (Let's imagine for simplicity that the
> updates are idempotent and commutative.) This seems doable, but it's not
> pretty. Is this the best I can do? Or should I think about the problem
> differently?
>
> (BTW, I believe that secondary indexes won't help me.)
>
> Cheers,
> John
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

