---
title: "Re: KeyFilter Usage"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-02-23T08:08:15-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06711"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06708"
author_name: "Rajat Mathur"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-02-23T08:08:15-08:00
---


I had looked into Secondary indexes, but had trouble implementing AND and
OR type of queries in\* RIAK-JAVA-CLIENT\*
I suppose Secondary indexes doesn't support search on multiple indexes
using OR or AND for\* Java Client.\*

Also what are the ways for doing queries like ORDER BY i.e. how to sort the
result based on certain parameter ?

On Thu, Feb 23, 2012 at 7:08 PM, Jeremiah Peschka <
jeremiah.pesc...@gmail.com> wrote:

> KeyFilters filter by the key you use to identify it in Riak. That is to
> say the key in key-value.
>
> If I key my users by name and I want to find everyone named Rajat, I would
> perform a StartsWith KeyFilter operation to find all of those records.
>
> The downside to KeyFilters is that they must scan every record. If you are
> using Bitcask, this isn't as much of a problem because that can will happen
> in RAM. However with other back ends, that scan will have to touch disk and
> you'll pay that I/O penalty.
>
> Depending on your overall data size and implemntation choices, this may or
> may not be a problem for you.
>
> I recommend looking into secondary indexes as well. This gives you the
> ability to define your own metadata however you want and use that for
> querying.
>
> ---
> Jeremiah Peschka, Managing Director, Brent Ozar PLF, LLC
> Microsoft SQL Server MVP
>
> On Feb 23, 2012, at 12:25 AM, Rajat Mathur  wrote:
>
> Can somebody tell me how to use KeyFilters [with/without MapReduce ] like,
>
> LogicalAndFilter,GreaterThanFilter, StartsWithFilter etc..
> \*
> I am not able to get on what key-values do they Filter on ??
> \*\*
> -- \*
> \*Rajat Mathur
> B.Tech (IT) Final Year
> IIIT Allahabad
>
> 09945990291
>
> Find me @ Facebook 
> Follow me @ Twitter \*
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>


-- 
\*Rajat Mathur
B.Tech (IT) Final Year
IIIT Allahabad

09945990291

Find me @ Facebook 
Follow me @ Twitter \*
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

