---
title: "Re: Bucket properties persist across crash/restart?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-02-18T11:47:45-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06636"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06628"
author_name: "Anthony Molinaro"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-02-18T11:47:45-08:00
---


Yeah I definitely forgot to run the script I have not straightened things out 
because I was waiting to hear if there was a safe way to do so without losing 
data. So do you happen to know one? I would think that maybe leaving, 
reconfig and join or maybe backup, reconfig and restore, but I don't know the 
feasibility or safety of either, any idea?

Thanks,
-Anthony

On Feb 17, 2012, at 2:06 PM, Mark Phillips  wrote:

> As far as I know we have never seen anything like this in testing or have we 
> had it reported. For that reason I'm inclined to say that you forget to run 
> your script. Any chance you straightened things out? Or are you still trying 
> to rectify things?
> 
> Mark 
> 
> 
> On Tue, Feb 14, 2012 at 4:00 PM, Anthony Molinaro 
>  wrote:
> Hi,
> 
> I have a system running riak 0.14.2 (I've kept from updating it based
> on all the bugs around adding of new nodes which I have to do fairly
> regularly, and which I hope are fixed in the upcoming 1.1).
> 
> I noticed something peculiar going on. I use the multi backend with
> several different bitcask backends. I do this so I can have different
> expirations on them. I also have a default completely separate backend.
> I had a script I could run the first time I bring a node up to set the
> bucket properties.
> 
> However, I've noticed that now some nodes point to the default
> backends, others point to the specific backends. Basically it's
> all jumbled up. So, I'm not sure what happened. Either
> 
> 1. riak forgets bucket properties on restart/crash and restart
> 2. I forgot to run my script when setting up new machines
> 
> So is it 1 or 2? And how can I get myself out of this mess? Can I
> do something like remove a node, then re-add it? I'd prefer not to
> lose data if possible, so any hints would be great.
> 
> -Anthony
> 
> --
> ------------------------------------------------------------------------
> Anthony Molinaro 
> 
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> 
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

