---
title: "Number of nodes and links"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-05-15T15:05:40-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00375"
author_name: "Chris Hicks"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-05-15T15:05:40-07:00
---



For the project I am working on there are going to be a lot of individual 
objects, eventually into the millions, with the vast majority of them being 
linked as (poorly) depicted below.

Overly simplified data model:

 B <==========>B
 \_\_\_\_|\_\_\_ \_\_\_|\_\_\_
 / \ / \
 C C C C
 / / \ \ / / \ \ / / \ \ / / \ \
 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D

Where some of the B level objects (each level separated into different buckets) 
are linked to each other but in very limited numbers. In some of these areas 
there will be a ton of rapid updates and in others much more rare updates. 
Since a decent portion of my data modifications involve nothing more than 
shifting which C level object a D level object is associated with, is there 
anything I should keep in mind when planning for a lot of link-changing 
operations? For example, though for some reason I can't find it now, I remember 
reading that the amount of links one could have per object was something like 
170K links, is that correct? I understand performance would degrade quite a bit 
when one has that amount of data for a single object and my project won't call 
for anywhere near that but just want to understand the nuances of the whole 
process.

Also, sort of related, I plan on running this whole thing on a single dedicated 
server machine (unless I get major usage and get the money to upgrade) that 
will have multiple CPU's. Should I just operate one physical node on that 
machine or should I match the number of CPU's with the number of nodes, 
essentially dedicating each physical CPU to handling a hardware node (if that 
is possible)? What would the pros and cons be to a single or multi-node system 
on that sort of hardware?

Chris Hicks.
 
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
The New Busy is not the old busy. Search, chat and e-mail from your inbox.
http://www.windowslive.com/campaign/thenewbusy?ocid=PID28326::T:WLMTAGL:ON:WL:en-US:WM\_HMP:042010\_3\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

