---
title: "Re: Quick Q re: error"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-11-10T09:05:13-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg09278"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg09265"
author_name: "Sean Cribbs"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-11-10T09:05:13-08:00
---


Can you ping the node? i.e. Riak::Client.ping

On Fri, Nov 9, 2012 at 9:17 AM, Martin Streicher
 wrote:
>
> Locally, everything runs fine when on 127.0.0.1.
>
> If I change to 192.168.0.2 and change the vm.args and app.config and remove 
> the data/rings, I fail to connect when trying to enable search.
>
> I can get further if I do
>
> client = Riak::Client.new(nodes: [{host: '192.168.0.2'}])
>
> and then enable search using that client variable.
>
> I think I am misunderstanding something about the nodes and which nodes the 
> operations are going to.
>
>
>
>
> On Nov 9, 2012, at 12:10 PM, Sean Cribbs wrote:
>
>> Well, it's pretty obvious that it simply can't connect, especially
>> since your configuration is the default -- which means HTTP pointed to
>> 127.0.0.1:8098. Is your Riak node running and on that port? Can you
>> hit it from curl on the command line?
>>
>> On Fri, Nov 9, 2012 at 7:36 AM, Martin Streicher
>>  wrote:
>>>
>>> I'm not doing anything special in Riak::Client.
>>>
>>> How can I narrow what the RuntimeError is?
>>>
>>>
>>>
>>> On Nov 9, 2012, at 10:21 AM, Sean Cribbs wrote:
>>>
>>>> Martin,
>>>>
>>>> How is your Riak::Client object configured? That looks like one of two
>>>> possibilities: first, the request failed 3 times in a row; second, one
>>>> of the backends is raising an exception that seems network related but
>>>> isn't one of the standard network errors (i.e it's a RuntimeError, but
>>>> it should be a SystemError with econnrefused errno!).
>>>>
>>>> On Fri, Nov 9, 2012 at 7:12 AM, Martin Streicher
>>>>  wrote:
>>>>>
>>>>> I get a connection refused error when I try to enable search from my code.
>>>>>
>>>>> /var/www/zutron/shared/bundle/ruby/1.9.1/gems/riak-client-1.0.5/lib/riak/client.rb:450:in
>>>>> `rescue in recover\_from': Connection refused - connect(2) (RuntimeError)
>>>>> from 
>>>>> /var/www/zutron/shared/bundle/ruby/1.9.1/gems/riak-client-1.0.5/lib/riak/client.rb:422:in
>>>>> `recover\_from'
>>>>> from 
>>>>> /var/www/zutron/shared/bundle/ruby/1.9.1/gems/riak-client-1.0.5/lib/riak/client.rb:284:in
>>>>> `http'
>>>>> from 
>>>>> /var/www/zutron/shared/bundle/ruby/1.9.1/gems/riak-client-1.0.5/lib/riak/client.rb:129:in
>>>>> `backend'
>>>>> from 
>>>>> /var/www/zutron/shared/bundle/ruby/1.9.1/gems/riak-client-1.0.5/lib/riak/client.rb:246:in
>>>>> `get\_bucket\_props'
>>>>> from 
>>>>> /var/www/zutron/shared/bundle/ruby/1.9.1/gems/riak-client-1.0.5/lib/riak/bucket.rb:77:in
>>>>> `props'
>>>>> from 
>>>>> /var/www/zutron/shared/bundle/ruby/1.9.1/gems/riak-client-1.0.5/lib/riak/bucket.rb:68:in
>>>>> `props='
>>>>> from 
>>>>> /var/www/zutron/releases/20121108191450/lib/classes/riak\_search.rb:6:in 
>>>>> `enable\_search'
>>>>>
>>>>> enable\_search is:
>>>>>
>>>>> def self.enable\_search(bucket\_name, client = Riak::Client.new)
>>>>> bucket = client.bucket bucket\_name
>>>>> bucket.props = {search: true}
>>>>> end
>>>>>
>>>>> Any ideas why it's failing? Search is enabled on the machine.
>>>>>
>>>>>
>>>>>
>>>>>
>>>>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>>>>> riak-users mailing list
>>>>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>>>>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>>>
>>>>
>>>>
>>>> --
>>>> Sean Cribbs 
>>>> Software Engineer
>>>> Basho Technologies, Inc.
>>>> http://basho.com/
>>>
>>
>>
>>
>> --
>> Sean Cribbs 
>> Software Engineer
>> Basho Technologies, Inc.
>> http://basho.com/
>



-- 
Sean Cribbs 
Software Engineer
Basho Technologies, Inc.
http://basho.com/

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

