---
title: "Re: Riak Recap for November 23 - 27"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-11-28T19:10:33-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05770"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg05769"
author_name: "Jeff Kirkell"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-11-28T19:10:33-08:00
---


6) Q --- Are people running riak natively on osx (for development) or
running on a vm that matches production? (from kenperkins via #riak)

 A --- Anyone? (We had a similar thread on the list several months
back about this but I figured it couldn't hurt to open it up to more
discussion.)

For me, I always develop directly on the Mac first using the standard 4
node environment. When the initial work is done, it is moved up to a shared
environment which uses multiple physical Linux machines like production.
Setting the ulimit solved the problems I had although I think the wiki's
command were not correct and I had to find the exact settings elsewhere.

Jeff

On Mon, Nov 28, 2011 at 8:49 PM, Aphyr  wrote:

> 6) Q --- Are people running riak natively on osx (for development) or
>> running on a vm that matches production? (from kenperkins via #riak)
>>
>> A --- Anyone? (We had a similar thread on the list several months
>> back about this but I figured it couldn't hurt to open it up to more
>> discussion.)
>>
>
> We've got a few devs who use riak on OSX for development here, but not
> heavily. ulimit appears to be a capricious liar on that platform, at least
> from the issues we've encountered. :/
>
> I do most of our riak-facing development, and use Ubuntu and Debian as my
> everyday dev OS. No VMs. We deploy to Ubuntu server.
>
> --Kyle
>
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\*\*\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/\*\*mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_\*\*lists.basho.com
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

