---
title: "Re: Riak Cluster Setup on EC2"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-02-02T09:33:07-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg02171"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg02170"
author_name: "Abhishek Kona"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-02-02T09:33:07-08:00
---



Hi Jon
Thanks for the quick reply.

On 02/02/11 10:33 PM, Jon Meredith wrote:

Hi Abhishek,

It looks like distributed erlang isn't working between the nodes so 
the join fails.


You can test it by bringing the nodes up in console mode and executing

$ riak console
[some logging status messages]
Eshell V5.7.5 (abort with ^G)
(dev2@127.0.0.1 
)1> net\_adm:ping('dev1@127.0.0.1 
').

pong
(dev2@127.0.0.1 )3> q().
ok

I do not get a reply for the above :
Node1
(riak@10.136.82.27)1> net\_adm:ping('riak@10.130.149.253')
(riak@10.136.82.27)1> q()
Node2
(riak@10.130.149.253)1> net\_adm:ping('riak@10.136.82.27')
(riak@10.130.149.253)1> q()

Any more suggestions.
--Abhishek Kona


Make sure you switch the node names for your own and run the test in 
both directions. If the node is unreachable it will return pang 
instead of ping.


--Jon
Senior Software Engineer
Basho Technologies



On Wed, Feb 2, 2011 at 9:04 AM, Abhishek Kona > wrote:


 On 02/02/11 8:38 PM, Sean Cribbs wrote:

 Abhishek,

 First, make sure all of your nodes are in the same security group.

 Yes, both the machines are on the same security group ( which has
 only the ports 8098, 8099, 8087).

 Second, check that your OS doesn't have an additional firewall
 installed (iptables, for example).

 I can telnet into the Riak ports from each of the machines, so
 firewall does not seem to be the issue.

 Third, you might consider doing what the Chef recipe for Riak
 does and limit the ports that Erlang uses for distributed
 communication. Adding a section to app.config like the below
 will limit the port range:

 {kernel, [
 {inet\_dist\_listen\_min, 6000},
 {inet\_dist\_listen\_max, 7999}
 ]}

 You'll need to stop Riak, kill the "epmd" process, and then start
 Riak up again for this change to take effect. Make sure those
 ports are also open in your security group and any software
 firewall you have.


 Tried with these changes as well, but still get the same message.
 Anything else, I can try?.
 Thanks for the help.

 Sean Cribbs 
 Developer Advocate
 Basho Technologies, Inc.
 http://basho.com/

 On Feb 2, 2011, at 8:47 AM, Abhishek Kona wrote:


 Hi folks

 I am trying to set up a Riak cluster on EC2.
 Each time I issue a command :

 $ sudo riak-admin join riak@10.130.149.253
 

 It fails :

 Attempting to restart script through sudo -u riak

 Node riak@10.130.149.253  is not
 reachable!


 Netstat on both the machines says the ports are running fine.

 netstat -na | egrep '(8087|8098|8099)'

 tcp 0 0 0.0.0.0:8098
  0.0.0.0:\* LISTEN

 tcp 0 0 0.0.0.0:8099
  0.0.0.0:\* LISTEN

 tcp 0 0 0.0.0.0:8087
  0.0.0.0:\* LISTEN


 I can telnet to all the ports from each of the machine.
 I have been pulling my hair for long but of no avail.
 Can any one look and tell me what I am doing wrong.
 Are there any debug logs where I can look at what is going wrong?
 Is there any EC2 specific trick (like using public hostnames).

 I am attaching my app.cfg file for reference.

 Thanks
 -Abhishek Kona

 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
 riak-users mailing list
 riak-users@lists.basho.com 
 http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com



 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
 riak-users mailing list
 riak-users@lists.basho.com 
 http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com




\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

