---
title: "Re: Riak error: no_candidate_nodes, exhausted_preflist"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-10-10T08:37:34-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05113"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04749"
author_name: "Kelly McLaughlin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-10-10T08:37:34-07:00
---


Martin,

The error you are seeing is caused by the death of some of map phase worker 
processes. It's hard to tell exactly why they would be dying from the limited 
output, but I suspect since you mention that it happens only under heavy load 
that it's hitting the map reduce timeout or perhaps (but more unlikely) even 
exceeding the erlang process limit. Could you check for any other error output 
in the riak log directory that might be relevant? You could also just try 
increasing the timeout used in your mapreduce queries and see if that 
alleviates the problem.

FWIW, I would expect you to have a better time with Riak 1.0 using the 
riak\_pipe mapreduce. It was designed to be more robust for long running jobs 
and in the case when the Riak cluster is heavily loaded. Cheers.

Kelly


On Sep 15, 2011, at 9:49 AM, Martin Woods wrote:

> Hi all
> 
> When running Riak recently on a development platform (Ubuntu 9.10 Server 
> 64-bit with Riak 0.14.2) the Riak error logs reported the following 
> termination:
> 
> 
> \*\* Reason for termination = 
> \*\* {error,
> {phase\_error,
> {error,
> {no\_candidate\_nodes,exhausted\_preflist,
> [{riak\_kv\_mapred\_planner,claim\_keys,3},
> {riak\_kv\_map\_phase,handle\_info,2},
> {luke\_phase,handle\_info,3},
> {gen\_fsm,handle\_msg,7},
> {proc\_lib,init\_p\_do\_apply,3}],
> 
> 
> At the time we were heavily loading Riak using the riakc client with multiple 
> Erlang mapreduce requests, each involving key filters. Could that load have 
> caused this error? We can see in the code where this is raised but don't know 
> enough about Riak under the hood to work out what the underlying cause is.
> 
> 
> 
> Any help would be much appreciated!
> 
> 
> 
> Kind regards,
> 
> Martin.
> 
> 
> 
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

