---
title: "Re: Achieving 100% consitency"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-08-30T12:54:11-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04527"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04526"
author_name: "Jonathan Langevin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-08-30T12:54:11-07:00
---


I can't speak for Jeremiah, but that's the joy that I'll be dealing with
once we recreate our "cluster" as a proper 3-node (using disparate servers).
\*

 
 Jonathan Langevin
Systems Administrator
Loom Inc.
Wilmington, NC: (910) 241-0433 - jlange...@loomlearning.com -
www.loomlearning.com - Skype: intel352
\*


On Tue, Aug 30, 2011 at 3:50 PM, Les Mikesell  wrote:

> On Tue, Aug 30, 2011 at 2:33 PM, Jeremiah Peschka
>  wrote:
> > That's the advice I usually give and the exact same reasons I give it.
> >
> > In an off-list email (as Jonathan knows), I equated it to saying "You
> should never do RDBMS development without a big enterprise grade server with
> $500k of SAN behind it." I typically say to build a dev environment that is
> as close to production as will give you production-like performance. Putting
> 3 nodes on my crappy stock laptop HDD isn't going to give me anything
> remotely like a production environment (well… there is always EC2
> performance).
> >
> > We see these questions a lot on the list and I don't feel that telling
> clients "Well, it's gonna suck until you get it into production" isn't the
> best possible answer. A lot of people seem to be developing on 3-node
> clusters made out of Mac Minis, HP micro servers, and EC2; but even more
> people seem to be developing on laptops and wondering why they're seeing
> horrible performance.
>
> How do you test the inconsistent states you will see in production
> when you develop with a one-node cluster? Or, for that matter on a
> 3-node cluster on the same box where partitioning isn't going to
> happen without some unusual intervention to emulate it?
>
> --
> Les Mikesell
> lesmikes...@gmail.com
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

