---
title: "Re: Using PBClusterConfig with RiakClient"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-04-11T11:56:07-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07189"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg07188"
author_name: "Sean Cribbs"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-04-11T11:56:07-07:00
---


Ahmed,

Only one host will process the request (although it will be dispatched
automatically as needed to replicas around the cluster). If you must
connect to only a single host, consider putting a load-balancer between
your client and Riak. We are working on auto-configuring clients for a
future Riak release.

On Wed, Apr 11, 2012 at 2:45 PM, Ahmed Bashir wrote:

> Thanks for the link; this is precisely what led me to believe that
> PBClusterConfig only supports IRiakClient, so I thought I'd ask around
> ...
>
> Also, if we create a RiakClient with a single host (and others exist),
> is there any auto-dicovery that goes on to balance the requests across
> ll ring members, or will that one host process all the app requests?
>
>
>
> On Wed, Apr 11, 2012 at 11:32 AM, Sean Cribbs  wrote:
> > Ahmed,
> >
> > I think you'll find this resource useful, it contains some examples of
> how
> > to use
> > PBClusterConfig:
> https://github.com/basho/riak-java-client/wiki/ClientFactory
> >
> > On Wed, Apr 11, 2012 at 2:29 PM, Ahmed Bashir 
> > wrote:
> >>
> >> Hey guys,
> >>
> >> I currently have an app that uses the RiakClient/RiakObject interface
> >> (fetch(),store(),etc) in lieu of the
> >> IRiakClient/IRiakObject/FetchObject interface.
> >>
> >> Is there any way for me to continue using my code with
> >> PBClusterConfig? It looks like I need to move to using IRiakClient in
> >> order to take advantage of PBClusterConfig, is that so?
> >>
> >> Any insight would be appreciated, thanks!
> >>
> >> Ahmed
> >>
> >> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> >> riak-users mailing list
> >> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> >> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> >
> >
> >
> >
> > --
> > Sean Cribbs 
> > Software Engineer
> > Basho Technologies, Inc.
> > http://basho.com/
> >
>



-- 
Sean Cribbs 
Software Engineer
Basho Technologies, Inc.
http://basho.com/
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

