---
title: "Re: object not stored"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-08-31T08:44:55-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04539"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04538"
author_name: "Jonathan Langevin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-08-31T08:44:55-07:00
---


Your server is single instance? Meaning you have only 1 node in your
"cluster"?
In that case, first issue I see is that your n\_val is set to 3. You need it
set to 1 to reflect that you only have 1 node.

Also, keep in mind that if you decide to add more servers to make a proper
cluster, you'll have to drop your current instance, reconfigure for 3+
nodes, and then you'll be able to work with additional nodes.
There's also apparently one or more ways to convert the single-node to work
in a proper cluster, but from what I gather, it's a royal pain, and much
simpler to start over.
\*


 
 Jonathan Langevin
Systems Administrator
Loom Inc.
Wilmington, NC: (910) 241-0433 - jlange...@loomlearning.com -
www.loomlearning.com - Skype: intel352
\*


On Wed, Aug 31, 2011 at 11:36 AM, Giancarlo Frison wrote:

> This is the bucket conf:
>
> gfrison@gfw:~$ curl http://localhost:8098/riak/user
>
> {"props":{"name":"user","n\_val":3,"allow\_mult":false,"last\_write\_wins":false,"precommit":[],"postcommit":[],"chash\_keyfun":{"mod":"riak\_core\_util","fun":"chash\_std\_keyfun"},"linkfun":{"mod":"riak\_kv\_wm\_link\_walker","fun":"mapreduce\_linkfun"},"old\_vclock":86400,"young\_vclock":20,"big\_vclock":50,"small\_vclock":10,"r":"quorum","w":"quorum","dw":"quorum","rw":"quorum"}}
>
> the server is single instance, the configuration is the default, no
> changes.
>
> I store the object as:
>
> rc.store(ob, new StoreMeta(1, 1, true))
> w=1,dw=1,returnbody=true
>
>
> Can you help me?
>
> Giancarlo Frison
>
>
>
> On Wed, Aug 31, 2011 at 4:01 PM, Jonathan Langevin <
> jlange...@loomlearning.com> wrote:
>
>> That could occur, depending on how many nodes are in your cluster, what
>> your r/w/dw settings are set to when fetching the object, how soon after
>> storing you attempt to fetch.
>> What is your configuration? i.e. - how many nodes in your cluster, what
>> settings are you using for reading & writing to Riak (r/w/dw, etc), what are
>> your bucket settings set to?
>>
>> I'm not advanced enough to help, but that info should hopefully help the
>> others on the list ;-)
>> \*
>>
>> 
>> Jonathan Langevin
>> Systems Administrator
>> Loom Inc.
>> Wilmington, NC: (910) 241-0433 - jlange...@loomlearning.com -
>> www.loomlearning.com - Skype: intel352
>> \*
>>
>>
>> On Wed, Aug 31, 2011 at 9:29 AM, Giancarlo Frison wrote:
>>
>>> Hi all,
>>>
>>> Sometimes happen that storing object with PB client doesn't work, the
>>> snippet is:
>>>
>>> IRiakObject ob =
>>> RiakObjectBuilder.newBuilder(bucket,key).withContentType("application/json").withValue(json).build();
>>> return rc.store(ob, new StoreMeta(1, 1, true)).getVclock().getBytes();
>>>
>>> below it is the snoop of storing action. As you can see the riak server
>>> is invoked by the client and return the object:
>>>
>>> T 127.0.0.1:52015 -> 127.0.0.1:8087 [AP]
>>> .....
>>> .user..gfrison"..
>>>
>>> G{"name":"Giancarlo","id":"gfrison","password":"pwd","surname":"frison"}..application/json;charset=utf-82"
>>> .eclass-general\_domain..User..iof(.0.8.
>>> ##
>>> T 127.0.0.1:8087 -> 127.0.0.1:52015 [AP]
>>> .....
>>> ..
>>>
>>> G{"name":"Giancarlo","id":"gfrison","password":"pwd","surname":"frison"}..application/json;charset=utf-8\*.4fXUimzXj3g0ukJHcpuxm32"
>>> .eclass-general\_domain..User..iof8.....@
>>> ..).\*k.a```.`..R,..E..L..y....W..A....L.
>>> ?..g..
>>>
>>>
>>> but when I try to get such object, I got not found:
>>>
>>> gfrison@ttw:~$ curl http://localhost:8098/riak/user/gfrison
>>> not found
>>>
>>> Have you any hint on it?
>>>
>>> thanks!
>>>
>>>
>>>
>>> Giancarlo Frison
>>> @gfrison
>>>
>>>
>>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>>> riak-users mailing list
>>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>>
>>>
>>
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

