---
title: "Re: Integrating Riak"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-11-23T07:59:33-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05719"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg05718"
author_name: "Sean Cribbs"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-11-23T07:59:33-08:00
---


Do you embed PostgreSQL or Oracle in your application? Generally you don't
(sqlite3 aside). This is the same concept. Depend on the client library,
not the database.

On Wed, Nov 23, 2011 at 10:57 AM, Andy Skelton  wrote:

> This is the answer I hoped not to read. You might call it a premature
> optimization but I believe it is reasonable to try to create a
> distributed Erlang app with Riak as a dependency.
>
> I've been hacking on a Riak fork that twiddles the rebar and reltool
> configs to shoehorn my own code into the same VM. That part is awkward
> but not impossible.
>
> I was hoping you'd say Basho was working on an easy way to include
> Riak as a rebar dep without forking as I did.
>
> Andy
>
> On Tue, Nov 22, 2011 at 11:31 PM, David Smith  wrote:
> > On Tue, Nov 22, 2011 at 4:36 PM, Andrew Berman 
> wrote:
> >> 4. Does it make more sense to just install a riak package and use the
> >> erlang pb client? Seems like it would be less efficient especially
> since
> >> these will live on the same machine.
> >
> > This is the preferred way to attack this problem. Separation of the
> > functionality by O/S processes is appropriate and much easier to
> > reason about in error situations. Loopback sockets to the PBs
> > interface should be within a 1 ms of total request handling time.
> >
> > D.
> >
> > --
> > Dave Smith
> > Director, Engineering
> > Basho Technologies, Inc.
> > diz...@basho.com
> >
> > \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> > riak-users mailing list
> > riak-users@lists.basho.com
> > http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> >
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>



-- 
Sean Cribbs 
Developer Advocate
Basho Technologies, Inc.
http://www.basho.com/
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

