---
title: "Re: Riak_KV::Riak_PB"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-06-29T10:50:27-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07836"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg07834"
author_name: "Sean Cribbs"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-06-29T10:50:27-07:00
---


Perhaps, but that might some other bug. Can you describe the request you
sent?

BTW, here's the PR that should fix the build/dep problem:
https://github.com/basho/riak\_core/pull/204

On Fri, Jun 29, 2012 at 12:33 PM, Andrew Zeneski
wrote:

> Thanks Sean,
>
> Would those minor issues explain this error message I get?
>
> client\_test.go:230: 0: Error processing incoming message:
> error:badarg:[{erlang,list\_to\_float,
> [["0.00000",101,43,48]]},
>
> {riak\_search\_utils,to\_float,
> 1},
> {riak\_search\_pb\_query,
> encode\_results,3},
> {riak\_search\_pb\_query,
> process,2},
> {riak\_api\_pb\_server,
> process\_message,4},
> {riak\_api\_pb\_server,
> handle\_info,2},
> {gen\_server,handle\_msg,5},
>
> {proc\_lib,init\_p\_do\_apply,3}]
> FAIL
>
>
> Andrew
>
> Andrew,
>
> Yes it is, but we have some minor dependency/build issues to resolve. The
> next pre-release tag should have the appropriate fixes.
>
> On Fri, Jun 29, 2012 at 12:17 PM, Andrew Zeneski  > wrote:
>
>> I built the 1.2.0pre3 (and master) and now have secondary index lookups
>> working in my client api; I am testing search right now but getting errors;
>> is RpbSearchQueryReq (PBC) implemented in 1.2?
>>
>> Thanks!
>>
>> Andrew
>>
>> On Jun 28, 2012, at 4:26 PM, Andrew Zeneski wrote:
>>
>> Thanks Sean,
>>
>> Indeed, sending either of those messages to Riak will result in a dropped
>> connection.
>>
>> I would like to move forward with my client implementation so that it
>> will be ready when 1.2 is released.
>>
>> Can I join in on the QA and maybe get a snapshot? Or should I be looking
>> for the 1.2 branch on github?
>>
>> Andrew
>>
>>
>> On Jun 28, 2012, at 4:14 PM, Sean Cribbs  wrote:
>>
>> Hi Andrew,
>>
>> Those were added to be part of the 1.2 release, which is in testing/QA
>> phases now. You can expect the release sometime next month. If you intend
>> to use the .proto files in your client application, be aware that they may
>> not be supported on the server yet (in fact, 1.1 and earlier will likely
>> dump the connection).
>>
>> On Thu, Jun 28, 2012 at 4:11 PM, Andrew Zeneski > > wrote:
>>
>>> I am working on a new protocol buffer based client using the master
>>> riak\_pb repository. I would just like to inquire on the state of riak\_kv
>>> with the latest pb, specifically is RpbIndexReq and RpbSearchQueryReq
>>> implemented yet (I know it is not in 1.1.4), if not is there a road map or
>>> any idea when.
>>>
>>> Thanks!
>>>
>>> Andrew
>>>
>>>
>>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>>> riak-users mailing list
>>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>>
>>
>>
>>
>> --
>> Sean Cribbs 
>> Software Engineer
>> Basho Technologies, Inc.
>> http://basho.com/
>>
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>
>>
>>
>
>
> --
> Sean Cribbs 
> Software Engineer
> Basho Technologies, Inc.
> http://basho.com/
>
>
>


-- 
Sean Cribbs 
Software Engineer
Basho Technologies, Inc.
http://basho.com/
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

