---
title: "2i and Links"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-12-12T13:53:34-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05923"
author_name: "God Dang"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-12-12T13:53:34-08:00
---



Hi,
 I'm trying to grok Links and 2i and are toying with some concepts for our 
schema design.
Out usecase:-Users-Content that belongs to a user and ability for any given 
user to full text search their content (without seeing anyone else content). 
Also per user be able to tag the content and easily filter listings based on 
these tags.
A design I've been toying with and been giving various stabs at code wise is:-A 
User bucket -Each user can have arbitrary contents related using Links.-A 
Content bucket -Content linked (on the user bucket and maybe reversed on 
each content) to a user
Are Links indexed in any way and would a (good) option for implementing tags be 
an approach where we use the Tag field on each link to store the 
information(also maybe in the user value). Like: {{<<"User">>, <<"Link to 
content">>}, <<"Tag1, Tag2, Tag3, etc">>}, Best is of course if the tags are 
Indexed and I can feed these into a m/r job but I guess it would be feasible to 
do it "client" side also. Maybe a other (better) option is to put a 2i on each 
content with the Tag and feed the Link keys in to a m/r job that goes over the 
indexed tags?
Is it possible using riak search to keep a per user index or do we have to roll 
our own? Or maybe some other smart approach.
Also, I read somewhere that a Riak value is best served < ~64MB, is that true 
and should we use Luwak after that.
Appreciate any insights.
Thanks, -dang
 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

