---
title: "Re: riak-0.14.2 memory crash"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-07-08T17:03:46-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03970"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg03969"
author_name: "Sylvain Niles"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-07-08T17:03:46-07:00
---


Thanks Dan, very useful tool. Here's the big offender:

Pid Name/Spawned as State Reductions Stack+heap MsgQ 
Length
<0.163.0> riak\_kv\_map\_master Garbing (limited info) 23815122240 
182452560 3


So it looks like there was a huge amount of data in the process queue
for the riak\_kv\_map\_master. The pid info for that process shows there
were only 3 messages in its queue. Any tricks for figuring out what
those messages looked like?

-Sylvain


On Fri, Jul 8, 2011 at 4:42 PM, Daniel Reverri  wrote:
> Can you check if an erl\_crash.dump file was created? The crash dump should 
> give some indication of which processes were taking up memory.
>
> The crashdump\_viewer built into Erlang is very useful for reviewing crash 
> dumps.
>
> Thanks
> Dan
>
> Sent from my iPhone
>
> On Jul 8, 2011, at 4:18 PM, Sylvain Niles  wrote:
>
>> Our system had been humming along fine for a week and crashed today
>> with almost no load. This is the only thing in the erlang.log:
>>
>>
>> =INFO REPORT==== 8-Jul-2011::16:46:14 ===
>> [{alarm\_handler,{clear,system\_memory\_high\_watermark}}]
>> =INFO REPORT==== 8-Jul-2011::16:50:14 ===
>> [{alarm\_handler,{set,{system\_memory\_high\_watermark,[]}}}]
>> =INFO REPORT==== 8-Jul-2011::16:51:14 ===
>> [{alarm\_handler,{clear,system\_memory\_high\_watermark}}]/usr/local/src/riak-0.14.2/rel/riak/lib/os\_mon-2.2.5/priv/bin/memsup:
>> Erlang has closed.
>> Erlang has closed
>>
>> Crash dump was written to: erl\_crash.dump
>> eheap\_alloc: Cannot allocate 1824525600 bytes of memory (of type "heap").
>>
>>
>> Looking in the sasl-error log I see that an erlang function I wrote
>> was crashing in some cases:
>>
>> \*\* Reason for termination = \*\* {error,       {phase\_error,
>> {error,               {error,undef,
>> [{get\_erl,past\_events,                        [{r\_object,<<"events">>,
>>                            <<"LRs2PibmMZknPm44IMzoZflCHUP">>,
>>                             [{r\_content,
>> ...ETC
>>
>>
>> So I definitely need to fix my code, but I'm wondering if this is
>> expected behavior that this would cause a memory leak that eventually
>> brings down riak? I thought if the process running my module crashed
>> everything would just be garbage collected and that'd be the end of
>> it. Any advice on the right way to approach this would be great,
>> thanks!
>>
>> -Sylvain
>>
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

