---
title: "Re: Issue in make all"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-01-09T09:03:07-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06182"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06181"
author_name: "Jared Morrow"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-01-09T09:03:07-08:00
---


Try cleaning out the directory with a 
'make clean distclean pkgclean'

The regex to set the supported erlang version is in the rebar.config file if 
you do want to change that.

And build again.

-Jared

On Jan 9, 2012, at 9:51 AM, suresh chandran wrote:

> Also, I uninstalled the older Erlang and installed, 14B03 sing the below set 
> of commands.
> 
> curl -O https://raw.github.com/spawngrid/kerl/master/kerl; chmod a+x kerl
> 
> ./kerl build R14B03 r14b03
> ./kerl install r14b03 /opt/erlang/r14b03
> 
> . /opt/erlang/r14b03/activate
> 
> to resolve this version issue. I am not sure why it says the curent ERLANG 
> version is 15B.
> 
> Thanks
> Suresh Chandran
> From: suresh chandran 
> To: Sean Cribbs  
> Cc: "riak-users@lists.basho.com"  
> Sent: Monday, January 9, 2012 11:47 AM
> Subject: Re: Issue in make all
> 
> Thanks Sean
> 
> I tried it. But it still reports the same issue. On other hand, is it picking 
> the regex from somewhere else, cos' i dont see the regex to match r13b04 
> which it says is supported.
> 
> Thanks
> Suresh Chandran
> 
> From: Sean Cribbs 
> To: suresh chandran  
> Cc: "riak-users@lists.basho.com"  
> Sent: Monday, January 9, 2012 10:09 AM
> Subject: Re: Issue in make all
> 
> Suresh,
> 
> We do not officially support R15B yet, but you can try changing the regex in 
> rebar.config to include R15.
> 
> {require\_otp\_vsn, "R14B0[234]|R15"}. 
> 
> The above should do the trick.
> 
> On Mon, Jan 9, 2012 at 9:58 AM, suresh chandran  wrote:
> I am trying to install Riak in my macbook. I installed erlang using "sudo 
> port install erlang +ssl" . When i do a "make all" in riak, i get the below 
> error and it quits.
> 
> I am trying to install the source as mentioned 
> http://wiki.basho.com/Building-a-Development-Environment.html. For some weird 
> reason, when i install the tarball, i am not able to connect to 8091 and also 
> I am not able to find the number of partitions. How do I configure the port 
> where riak is running and the number of partitions in tarball? 
> 
> Thanks
> Suresh Chandran
> 
> make all
> fatal: Not a git repository (or any of the parent directories): .git
> ./rebar get-deps
> fatal: Not a git repository (or any of the parent directories): .git
> fatal: Not a git repository (or any of the parent directories): .git
> fatal: Not a git repository (or any of the parent directories): .git
> ==> cluster\_info (get-deps)
> ==> skerl (get-deps)
> ==> lager (get-deps)
> ==> poolboy (get-deps)
> ==> protobuffs (get-deps)
> ==> basho\_stats (get-deps)
> ==> riak\_sysmon (get-deps)
> ==> mochiweb (get-deps)
> ==> webmachine (get-deps)
> ==> riak\_core (get-deps)
> ==> riakc (get-deps)
> ==> luke (get-deps)
> ==> erlang\_js (get-deps)
> ==> bitcask (get-deps)
> ==> merge\_index (get-deps)
> ==> ebloom (get-deps)
> ==> eper (get-deps)
> ==> eleveldb (get-deps)
> ==> edown (get-deps)
> ==> sext (get-deps)
> ==> riak\_pipe (get-deps)
> ==> basho\_metrics (get-deps)
> ==> riak\_kv (get-deps)
> ==> luwak (get-deps)
> ==> lucene\_parser (get-deps)
> ==> riak\_search (get-deps)
> ==> rel (get-deps)
> ==> riak-1.0.2 (get-deps)
> ./rebar compile
> fatal: Not a git repository (or any of the parent directories): .git
> fatal: Not a git repository (or any of the parent directories): .git
> fatal: Not a git repository (or any of the parent directories): .git
> ==> cluster\_info (compile)
> ERROR: OTP release R15B does not match required regex R13B04|R14
> make: \*\*\* [compile] Error 1
> 
> 
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> 
> 
> 
> 
> -- 
> Sean Cribbs 
> Software Engineer
> Basho Technologies, Inc.
> http://basho.com/
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

