---
title: "Re: RiakSearch solr multiply file Submit ?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-10-31T08:24:45-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01427"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg01426"
author_name: "Prometheus WillSurvive"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-10-31T08:24:45-07:00
---


Hi Rusty,

This is what I got when use \* in file name:



[r...@sft riaksearch]# bin/search-cmd solr testwiki /root/DATA/output/\*.xml

Usage:

 search-cmd set\_schema [INDEX] SCHEMAFILE : Set schema for an index.
 search-cmd show\_schema [INDEX] : Display the schema for an index.
 search-cmd shell [INDEX] : Start the interactive Search 
shell.
 search-cmd search [INDEX] QUERY : Perform a search.
 search-cmd search\_doc [INDEX] QUERY : Perform a document search.
 search-cmd explain [INDEX] QUERY : Display an execution plan.
 search-cmd index [INDEX] PATH : Index files in a path.
 search-cmd delete [INDEX] PATH : De-index files in a path.
 search-cmd solr [INDEX] PATH : Run the Solr file.
 search-cmd install BUCKET : Install kv/search integration 
hook
 search-cmd uninstall BUCKET : Uninstall kv/search integration 
hook
 search-cmd test PATH : Run a test package



If I give only path like bin/search-cmd solr testwiki /root/DATA/output/ 
than its ok.

Regards

Prometheus


On Oct 31, 2010, at 5:22 PM, Rusty Klophaus wrote:

> Hi Prometheus,
> 
> Can you tell me the exact error that it gives?
> 
> Wildcard matching should work as follows (taken from the library 
> documentation):
> 
> The wildcard string looks like an ordinary filename, except that certain 
> "wildcard characters" are interpreted in a special way. The following 
> characters are special:
> 
> ?
> Matches one character.
> 
> \*
> Matches any number of characters up to the end of the filename, the next dot, 
> or the next slash.
> 
> {Item,...}
> Alternation. Matches one of the alternatives.
> Other characters represent themselves. Only filenames that have exactly the 
> same character in the same position will match. (Matching is case-sensitive; 
> i.e. "a" will not match "A").
> 
> Best,
> Rusty
> 
> On Sun, Oct 31, 2010 at 11:18 AM, Prometheus WillSurvive 
>  wrote:
> Hi Rusty ,
> 
> Thanks
> 
> I already tried. :) but it give error and trying to teach me sytnax as in 
> help :) 
> 
> It is accepting : bin/search-cmd solr testwiki /root/DATA/output/ 
> 
> but gives error for : 
> 
> bin/search-cmd solr testwiki /root/DATA/output/\*.xml 
> 
> As you aware We are trying to do some benchmark test on riaksearch. We have 
> customers have billions of doc. Working with current lucene / Solr is a 
> operational nightmare ( yes it is).
> 
> So we are looking for a replacement for those customers. This is why we are 
> one of the early tester of the RiakSearch. 
> 
> Best Regards
> 
> Prometheus
> 
> 
> On Oct 31, 2010, at 5:12 PM, Rusty Klophaus wrote:
> 
>> Hi Prometheus,
>> 
>> Yes, you can either put the files into a directory and then provide a 
>> command line pointing to the directory, ie:
>> 
>> bin/search-cmd solr index path/to/directory
>> 
>> Or you can specify a wildcard using '\*':
>> 
>> bin/search-cmd solr index path/to/directory/\*.xml
>> 
>> Best,
>> Rusty
>> 
>> 
>> On Sat, Oct 30, 2010 at 4:10 PM, Prometheus WillSurvive 
>>  wrote:
>> Hi ,
>> 
>> Is there anyway to submit more than one file in :
>> 
>> "search-cmd solr INDEX abc.xml ? "
>> 
>> it is not accepting \*.xml or 1.xml 2.xml in the same command line..
>> 
>> thanks
>> 
>> Prometheus
>> 
>> 
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>> 
> 
> 

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

