---
title: "Re: RiakSearch Benchmark Test Invitation."
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-10-28T03:47:00-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01392"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg01391"
author_name: "Prometheus WillSurvive"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-10-28T03:47:00-07:00
---


Hi Guys,

I just put the wikipedia riaksearch solr index ready XMLs to the: 

 http://rapidshare.com/files/427591191/wikipedia350.tar.gz 

you can download from there. 

there is also a small keyword list for benchmark test.

We can put bigger documents later ie 3 million wikipedia doc. 

Let us know your test results. I used Apache Jmeter to send 10 clients queering 
to the clusters (3 machine)

Best Regards

PrometheusWillSurvive

On Oct 28, 2010, at 12:28 PM, Neville Burnell wrote:

> Put it on S3
> 
> On 28 October 2010 20:20, francisco treacy  wrote:
> Very good idea!
> 
> 2010/10/28 Prometheus WillSurvive :
> > Hi All,
> > We have prepare wikipedia database output ready to submit RiakSearch. It is
> > XML and described format for solr submit. Each file has 20.000 Document and
> > totaly 15 xml files. Each file around 44 MB.
> > You can submit all XML 's = bin/search-cmd solr wikipedia
> > /wikipedia/content-xml-out/wikipedia\_1.xml
> > So you only need to submit this files to the riaksearch and than make a
> > benchmark test/tune and share your experience.
> > I would like to ask Riak Admin guys is there any place that I can share
> > these files for public access to start collaborative tests ?
> > Second phase I can put 3 million wikipedia XML sets to ready to submit
> > riaksearch. So All we have some common benchmark and tuning parameters.
> > I hope this will help the riaksearch community to better understanding its
> > capability.
> > Best Regards
> >
> >
> > \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> > riak-users mailing list
> > riak-users@lists.basho.com
> > http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> >
> >
> 
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> 

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

