---
title: "getting a head start on a long post-commit task"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-04-12T17:16:04-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07199"
author_name: "Kelvin Jarrett"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-04-12T17:16:04-07:00
---


I want to store large images in Riak.

As soon as Riak has saved the entire blob, I want to use a post-commit hook to 
create thumbnails of various sizes.

I plan to show the mobile user a progress bar that will advance during the 
upload, and continue even after the last byte has entered the cluster, while 
the nodes are approaching quorum.

To the clients, a progress bar at 100% will indicate a safely completed upload. 
To other developers, a progress bar at 100% will indicate that all background 
tasks are complete and the mobile client can disconnect from the service.

It occurs to me that I might be able to start some downsampling immediately 
after the first copy of the image has been written into the cluster. I could 
shoot a small thumbnail back into the client before I move the progress bar to 
100%.

The wiki [0] seems clear on the subject: "API & Behavior  ...  Hook functions 
must accept a single argument, the riak\_object instance just written."

It seems that the post-commit action can only start on a fully-qualified Riak 
object, which would be available only after all n copies of the image have been 
distributed and verified as written.

Is there a sensible way to short-circuit this process within Riak? Is starting 
early on post-commit work a reckless idea?

Many thanks.

KJ

[0] wiki.basho.com/Commit-Hooks.html


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

