---
title: "Re: secondary index read with limit?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-01-25T10:34:21-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06412"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06411"
author_name: "Reid Draper"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-01-25T10:34:21-08:00
---



On Jan 25, 2012, at 1:20 PM, Alexander Sicular wrote:

> Afaik, range queries the likes of which you suggest are not possible in riak 
> because riak is an inherently unordered system. That being said, it is a 
> major cause of concern for those looking at riak as a potential solution. One 
> ultimately needs to implement a secondary ordered index elsewhere to achieve 
> desired results. I pair riak with redis, like pairing a sizzling steak with a 
> fine red wine. 
Values are sorted by key (per vnode) when using the eleveldb backend. As Mike 
pointed out, doing numerically limited range queries across the cluster would 
require getting (unknown at query time) data from each vnode, and sorting the 
results as they come in. We've talked about ideas like this, but there is 
nothing specific currently on the roadmap. Range queries are possible now using 
2i, but the results aren't sorted and there is no way to numerically limit the 
results.
> 
> -Alexander Sicular
> 
> @siculars
> 
> On Jan 25, 2012, at 1:08 PM, Michael Radford wrote:
> 
>> I'm wondering if there's any way to achieve a limited secondary index
>> read in Riak, i.e., up to N records in some key range. With that
>> primitive, it seems like it would be possible for the user to
>> implement things like pagination, incremental joins over multiple
>> indices, etc. (For efficiency I guess it would have to be something
>> like "up to N records from each vnode"?)
>> 
>> Looking at the source code, I think the answer is no, but since range
>> queries are already implemented using iterators, it doesn't seem like
>> it would be too hard to add. Can anyone comment on the roadmap for a
>> feature like this, and/or the possibility of getting a patch accepted?
>> 
>> Mike
>> 
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> 
> 
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

