---
title: "Re: confused"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-09-16T10:09:09-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01080"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg01078"
author_name: "Grant Schofield"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-09-16T10:09:09-07:00
---



On Sep 15, 2010, at 2:40 PM, Nils Petersohn wrote:

> hello,
> 
> i was setting up 9 riak instances:
> 
> three on my mac with the appropriate app config
> and six with two virtual machines on a different computer.
> 
> all 8 joined the d...@192.168.1.20
> and the join request was sent.
> 
> after setting this up:
> i wanted to put data with the java client on d...@192.168.1.20 than i got a 
> timeout ?!?
> 

I am curious if you started this node and then changed its name in the config 
file? Errors like this can happen if you don't riak-admin reip the node, also 
the ring file would be wrong and this could lead to some of the other errors 
you saw below. One thing you may want to look at is the state of your ring 
from the Riak console using riak\_core\_ring\_manager:get\_my\_ring(). That might 
show any problems with the ring, feel free to send that along so we can take a 
look at it.

> when i put data on one of the other machines than only this machine was using 
> cpu time and none of the other ...
> if consistent hashing works like expected, than all the machines should show 
> up on "top"
> 
> when i did a mapreduce job than only this machine was using cpu time and none 
> of the other ...
> 
> i had "top" running on all of them.
> 
> -------------------------------------------------------
> the other problem is:
> 
> when i have 1/2 mio. entrys in one bucket with less than 100 chars for each 
> entry
> and i do a really simple mapreduce job, than it takes forever (15 minutes ...)
> while sql uses .005 secons....
> 
> i know that doing a mr on a complete bucket, than it takes very long if i 
> don't secify keys in the bucket. but how should i know which keys to use ...

What version of Riak are you using? There has been a fair amount of 
improvement to the map reduce system as well as list keys. Are the map reduce 
jobs you are running javascript?

> ------------------------------------------------------
> 
> if i put stuff in one bucket and add a machine with the join request, how can 
> i rebalance the bucket???? so that the other machine is taking some values 
> too.

This happens automatically. When the new node joins the cluster you should see 
handoff messages in the erlang.log.X log file. Rebalancing is handled by the 
cluster and shouldn't be done manually.

Grant Schofield
Developer Advocate
Basho Technologies, Inc.


> 
> ------------------------------------------------------
> 
> i don't understand these issues/behaviors (timeout, 15min. etc., 
> rebalancing), maybe i was setting the one of the three params incorrect ? i 
> left everything to the default settings.
> 
> thx in advance for any hints...
> 
> nils
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

