---
title: "Re: Storing Sets in a new backend"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-12-27T11:25:40-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01848"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg01836"
author_name: "Joel Meyer"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-12-27T11:25:40-08:00
---


On Tue, Dec 21, 2010 at 7:25 PM, Jeremiah Peschka <
jeremiah.pesc...@gmail.com> wrote:

> I'm interested to see how it turns out.
>
> One question: Shouldn't you be able to determine equality from the vclocks?
> Timestamps could run into issues if the clocks of different machines get out
> of sync. They also don't allow for much granularity - there's always a
> chance of collisions.
>
> How would this be any different from doing the same thing with bitcask or
> InnoDB? Is it just your use of mmap to save memory space as opposed to
> bitcask reading keys into RAM?
>

Yes. In the other project Anthony referenced I only stored the hash of the
key (64 bits) and used mmap to let the the filesystem handle the caching of
pages while highly optimizing the on-disk format. Also, for that project,
the data constraints were a little different as updates only affected a
portion of the stored value, which I edited in place by flipping a few bits
on the mmap'ed region and then msync'ed occasionally.

Our datasets tend to be large, accessed randomly, and have tight
restrictions on access time. Using riak\_core to distribute the data among
multiple machines and do ring management works well, while writing the core
data access/storage in C lets us optimize on disk format and work close to
the hardware.

(If I get time I'd like to rewrite the first project [a time-series
database] as a backend for Riak by doing some similar API overloading.)

Joel


> Jeremiah Peschka
>
>
> On Tue, Dec 21, 2010 at 8:02 PM, Anthony Molinaro <
> antho...@alumni.caltech.edu> wrote:
>
>> Hi,
>>
>> Just wondering if anyone had an opinions on this idea?
>>
>> Thanks,
>>
>> -Anthony
>>
>> On Fri, Dec 17, 2010 at 03:20:58PM -0800, Anthony Molinaro wrote:
>> > Hi,
>> >
>> > I have a situation where I need to store sets of integers as
>> efficiently
>> > as possible. In order to do so I was going to implement a custom
>> backend
>> > and alter the semantics of get/put/delete, such that
>> >
>> > put (K, [{i,V}]) - insert one or more V into list at K
>> > put (K, [{d,V}]) - delete one or more V from list at K
>> > get (K) - returns list at K
>> > delete (K) - delete entire list
>> >
>> > I'll probably keep the lists in sorted order via insertion sort so that
>> > a quorum read can easily determine equality.
>> >
>> > My backend would probably be a linked in driver which mmaps a file so
>> > I can keep this stuff as tightly packed in memory as possible.
>> >
>> > We did something similar using just riak\_core for a different system,
>> > but for that system we had a custom thrift frontend and didn't adhere
>> > to the riak\_kv api.
>> >
>> > So I was wondering, what sort of issues might I see with this sort of
>> > use of riak? Is there another way I'm missing which would allow me
>> > to efficiently do this?
>> >
>> > I expect in the end to have approximately 500 million lists of integers
>> > with most in the ~10 integer range with a few up to the ~200 integer
>> > range. Also, I'll probably have a timestamp associated with each
>> > integer and want to use map-reduce to expire entries which are too old.
>> >
>> > Anway, I realize this might be an odd usage, and I can always fallback
>> > to what we did before which was a thrift server on top up riak\_core with
>> > a custom datastore, but I figured if I could use the same API as riak\_kv
>> > with a custom backend it might save me a little time.
>> >
>> > -Anthony
>> >
>> > --
>> > ------------------------------------------------------------------------
>> > Anthony Molinaro > >
>>
>> --
>> ------------------------------------------------------------------------
>> Anthony Molinaro 
>>
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>
>
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

