---
title: "Re: Large ring_creation_size"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-04-13T12:41:41-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03012"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg03011"
author_name: "Greg Nelson"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-04-13T12:41:41-07:00
---


The largest known riak cluster != the largest possible riak cluster. ;-)

The inter node communication of the cluster depends on the data set and usage 
pattern, doesn't it? Or is there some constant overhead that tops out at a few 
hundred nodes? I should point out that we'll have big data, but not a huge 
number of keys.

The number of vnodes in the cluster should be equal to the ring\_creation\_size 
under normal circumstances, shouldn't it? So when I have a one node cluster, 
that node is running ring\_creation\_size vnodes... File descriptors probably 
isn't a problem -- these machines won't be doing anything else, and the limits 
are set to 65536.

Thinking about the internode communication you mentioned, that's probably where 
the resource hog is.. socket buffers, etc.

Anyway, I'd also love to hear more from basho. :)
On Wednesday, April 13, 2011 at 12:33 PM, sicul...@gmail.com wrote: 
> Ill just chime in and say that this is not practical for a few reasons. The 
> largest known riak cluster has like 50 or 60 nodes. Afaik, inter node 
> communication of erlang clusters top out at a few hundred nodes. I'm also 
> under the impression that each physical node has to have enough file 
> descriptors to accommodate every virtual node in the cluster. 
> 
> I'd love to hear more from basho. 
> 
> -alexander 
> 
> 
> Sent from my Verizon Wireless BlackBerry
> 
> -----Original Message-----
> From: Greg Nelson 
> Sender: riak-users-boun...@lists.basho.com
> Date: Wed, 13 Apr 2011 12:13:34 
> To: 
> Subject: Large ring\_creation\_size
> 
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> 
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

