---
title: "Re: How do you choose riak search over map reduce vice versa?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-01-29T20:26:08-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg02157"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg02155"
author_name: "Joshua Partogi"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-01-29T20:26:08-08:00
---


Hi all,

Thank you for sharing. Really appreciate it. I think I would use search over
map-reduce now and reserve map-reduce only for special case. I also found it
easier to write and maintain a search query rather than map-reduce query.

Kind regards,
Joshua

On Sun, Jan 30, 2011 at 2:58 PM, Jeremiah Peschka <
jeremiah.pesc...@gmail.com> wrote:

> Following on what others have said: I would use Riak Search when I need to
> do searching and querying.
>
> I would use MapReduce when I have distributed functionality that I need to
> perform (aggregations, complex data manipulation) or when the conditions of
> my query are complex enough that I cannot feasibly perform the query in a
> Riak Search (e.g. find every employee whose base salary + bonuses + stock
> options exercised is more that 150% of base salary).
>
> Jeremiah Peschka
> Microsoft SQL Server MVP
> MCITP: Database Developer, DBA
>
>
>
> On Sat, Jan 29, 2011 at 10:31 PM, Ryan Zezeski  wrote:
>
>> Joshua,
>>
>> I recently switched from using riak to riak-search in order to index my
>> data without requiring a map-reduce each time I wanted to query. For
>> example, my application needs the ability to filter a set of file objects
>> based on various attributes such as type and creation time. Using riak I
>> achieved this with map-reduce but it required a mapred over a bucket each
>> time which was just too expensive (I was using the fs backend which didn't
>> help). To combat this I created a cache of the results but my application
>> also requires that a new file is immediately seen by the system which means
>> I was still running the map-reduce job too often. I then turned to
>> riak-search which allowed me to index the data as it comes in (giving the
>> system immediate visibility of new files) and allowed for very efficient,
>> low latency queries.
>>
>> I'd say if you have a job that you are going to run \_very\_ often for the
>> purpose of indexing your data then you might want to look at search.
>>
>> -Ryan
>>
>>
>> On Sat, Jan 29, 2011 at 10:05 AM, Joshua Partogi wrote:
>>
>>> How do you choose whether to use one over the other? What are the
>>> criterias I should look at?
>>>
>>> Thanks heaps
>>>
>>> --
>>> http://twitter.com/jpartogi 
>>>
>>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>>> riak-users mailing list
>>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>>
>>
>>
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>
>>
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>


-- 
http://twitter.com/jpartogi 
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

