---
title: "Re: riak_kv_cache_backend config questions"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-08-23T07:38:45-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04422"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04420"
author_name: "Tony Bussieres"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-08-23T07:38:45-07:00
---


Thanks Kelly!

So, if I understood well.

with a config like this :
riak\_kv\_cache\_backend\_ttl 60
\*riak\_kv\_cache\_backend\_max\_ttl 300

\*If I put a key at time 0, and access it will disappear after 60 second.
If I put a key at time 0, and access it at time 50, it will disappear at
time 110
If I put a key at time 0, and access it every 15 seconds, it will disappear
after 300 seconds.

I'm I right?

Regards,

-tony



On Tue, Aug 23, 2011 at 10:22 AM, Kelly McLaughlin  wrote:

> Tony,
>
> riak\_kv\_cache\_backend\_ttl is the amount of time to extend an object's lease
> or lifespan when accessed whereas \*riak\_kv\_cache\_backend\_max\_ttl is the
> amount of time after which no further extensions should be granted. \*
>
> Kelly
>
>
> On Aug 23, 2011, at 7:49 AM, Tony Bussieres wrote:
>
> Hi all,
>
> Could someone explain with an example what's the difference between :
>
> \*riak\_kv\_cache\_backend\_max\_ttl
> and
> \*\*riak\_kv\_cache\_backend\_ttl
>
> Does the value of riak\_kv\_backend\_max\_ttl is also in seconds?
>
> Here's a snippet from the documentation found at
> http://wiki.basho.com/Configuration-Files.html
> \*
>
> - \*riak\_kv\_cache\_backend\*
> A backend that behaves as an LRU-with-timed-expiry cache
> - \*riak\_kv\_cache\_backend\_memory\*
> Maximum amount of memory to allocate, in megabytes (default: “100”)
> - \*riak\_kv\_cache\_backend\_ttl\*
> Amount by which to extend an object’s expiry lease on each access,
> in seconds (default: “600”)
> - \*riak\_kv\_cache\_backend\_max\_ttl\*
> Maximum allowed lease time (default: “3600”)
>
> Thanks!
>
> -tony
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

