---
title: "Re: vclock, vtag, entity tag"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-12-27T18:15:06-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg09688"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg09687"
author_name: "Shuhao Wu"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-12-27T18:15:06-08:00
---


Then what exactly is etag/vtag.

Shuhao
On Dec 27, 2012 7:16 PM, "Pavan Venkatesh"  wrote:

> With 2 siblings, you'll still have 1 vector clock (no matter if its
> through http or protobuf).
> Each sibling will have the same vector clock.
>
> Pavan
>
> From: Shuhao Wu 
> Date: Thursday, December 27, 2012 2:22 PM
> To: Pavan Venkatesh 
> Cc: 
> Subject: Re: vclock, vtag, entity tag
>
> Wait. So with 2 siblings, I should get 2 different vclock and 2 etags from
> http.
>
> But the specification from pbc tells me it will only return 1 vclock and 2
> vtags
>
> Shuhao
> Sent from my phone.
> On 2012-12-27 5:19 PM, "Pavan Venkatesh"  wrote:
>
>> Hi Shuhao,
>>
>> Lets say, two clients update the same object at the same time (through
>> http or protobuf),then a sibling is created, but with the same vector
>> clock.They merge into single object with one vector clock, but these
>> siblings live in the same object.
>> User intervention is required and one can pick the correct value and issue
>> a put request with that vector clock in order to resolve the conflict.
>> Hope this helps.
>>
>> Pavan
>>
>> On 12/25/12 10:08 PM, "Shuhao"  wrote:
>>
>> >Hi,
>> >
>> >I'm just browsing through the API documentations for Riak and I just
>> >noticed a couple of things that's pretty confusing:
>> >
>> >It's my understanding that with the HTTP fetch request, each
>> >object/sibling returned will have its own vclock in the form of the HTTP
>> >header `X-Riak-Vclock` and an entity tag under the header `ETag`. There
>> >is also a vtag url parameter specified by the HTTP fetch request which I
>> >assume fetches specific sibling with that entity tag. [1]
>> >
>> >[1]:
>> >
>> http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/references/apis/http/HTTP-Fetch-Object/
>> >
>> >However, the protobuf client will return a list of siblings but only
>> >with 1 vclock with `optional bytes vclock = 2;` for all the siblings
>> >returned under `content`. For each sibling, there will be a `vtag`
>> >attribute, which I assume is the entity tag as specified in the HTTP
>> >document. [2]
>> >
>> >[2]:
>> >
>> http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/references/apis/protocol-buffers/PBC-Fet
>> >ch
>> >-Object/
>> >
>> >So the confusion is that why is it that in the HTTP request, each
>> >sibling has its own vclock and entity tag/vtag while in the PBC request,
>> >the entire response only has 1 vclock and each object has its own
>> >vtag/entity tag. I'm not too sure if my understanding is complete.
>> >
>> >Thanks,
>> >
>> >Shuhao
>> >
>> >\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> >riak-users mailing list
>> >riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> >http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>> >
>>
>>
>>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

