---
title: "Re: atomically updating multiple keys"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-10-31T03:16:09-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05383"
author_name: "Paul R"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-10-31T03:16:09-07:00
---



Alexander> This would have to be implemented in application space... 

The application 'if then if then if then' proposals are ugly, cumbersome
and unsafe in case of client crash.

Atomicity is better provided at the protocol level, and I don't see why
a distributed store can't provide such a convenient mechanism.

A naïve implementation would be for riak to attach a session status to
each object in the store. The statut would be

 type Status = Commited | InSession SessionID

where SessionId is a unique id. If we need nested sessions, it would
just have to be a list of SessionIds 

 type Status = Commited | InSessions [ SessionID ]


Next, any connexion to riak can be done in a session (or in nested
sessions), which is nothing else than a property attached to requests.

 type Session = NoSession | InSession SessionID

or, for nested sessions :

 type Sessions = [ SessionID ]


For the rest of this proposal, I'll take the case of flat single
session.


Any query performed by any client will return every objects for which
Status is either Commited, or (InSession session\_id) , where session\_id
is obviously the id of the query session. That provides isolation, so
that concurrent queries won't see the data until commited, while session
queries will see them.

Any insertion will have its status set to (InSession session\_id) until
riak receives the order to commit this session\_id, at which point it
will turn these objects status to Commited. There is a short window here
where the data could be in an inconsistent state, but I doub't it
matters much in riak case, and I'm confident that they are tricks to
limit its effect.

If riak receives a rollback instruction, it just deletes objects having
the session\_id. If it never receives it, it can decide to cleanup
objects after a configurable timeout.


Most of this proposal could probably be implemented by riak clients, but
a riak server support would allow better performance by doing efficient
book-keeping, as well as providing a unified and well supported protocol
for such operations. Just like search, secondary indices or luwak ...


-- 
 Paul

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

