---
title: "Riak Recap for 4/14"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-04-15T11:42:06-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00052"
author_name: "Mark Phillips"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-04-15T11:42:06-07:00
---


Hey All -

Today's Recap features an orphaned question from IRC, a convo about
buckets and ringstate that might be of value to those of you planning
and prototyping apps, and a heads up about a new blog post.

Best,

Mark

Mark Phillips
Community Manager
wiki.basho.com
twitter.com/pharkmillups

------
Riak Recap for 4/14

1) Is there a way to make clean not clean javascript vm build files?
eg. we use riak in our app, and when we clean, it also cleans the js.
It's fine if distclean did that but it's so annying that we have to
wait to get js compiled. (from pusewicz via IRC)

A ---- The best way do this would be to use the embedded node (rel)
and overlay. If it's an erlang app, have it 'make install' into the
overlay. This will enable you to build and update Riak and your
application separately.


2) The following gist is a conversation between seancribbs and, lvh
(with a little help from benblack) that went down yesterday in IRC.
There are a lot of good questions and answers about what you should
consider when creating and using buckets.

https://gist.github.com/77fc4f971aee31c7beca


3) Sean Cribbs, with the help of @botanicus, added another great post
to the Basho Blog. Sean goes through a great scenario for using Riak's
MapReduce, complete with some code examples and a cartoon. Check it
out if you haven't had the chance to yet:

http://blog.basho.com/2010/04/14/practical-map-reduce:-forwarding-and-collecting/

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

