---
title: "Re: Pruning (merging) after storage reaches a certain size?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-09-26T08:05:12-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08703"
author_name: "Jeremiah Peschka"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-09-26T08:05:12-07:00
---


The only other time I've seen this documented is in a thread from 2011
about pruning (merging) after deletes. Here's the message in question in
case any historians are lurking:
http://markmail.org/message/4nakwhixkw3jcxvi
---
Jeremiah Peschka
Managing Director, Brent Ozar PLF, LLC


On Thu, Jul 28, 2011 at 9:18 AM, Steve Webb  wrote:

> Just to be clear ...
>
> If I made the max\_file\_size small, and set the expire\_secs value to
> something small, but never explicitly delete anything, the non-active files
> will be considered for merging (and will prune any expired data) just
> because they are inactive and don't trigger any other merge-detection
> criteria?
>
> If not, how would I configure riak as a system that I could continuously
> insert data into and always just have the last days worth of data or so?
>
>
> - Steve
>
> --
> Steve Webb - Senior System Administrator for gnip.com
> http://twitter.com/GnipWebb
>
> On Mon, 13 Jun 2011, Justin Sheehy wrote:
>
> Hi, Steve.
>>
>> The key to your situation was in my earlier email:
>>
>> One note that is relevant for your specific use: the expiry\_secs
>> parameter will cause a given item to disappear from the client
>> API immediately after expiry, and to be cleaned if it is in a file
>> already being merged, but will not currently contribute toward
>> merge triggers or thresholds on its own if not otherwise "dead".
>>
>> That is, bitcask wasn't originally designed around the expiry-centric
>> way of removing old data, and data that has simply expired (but not
>> actively been deleted) will not be counted as garbage toward
>> thresholds or triggers at this time. It will be cleaned up in a
>> merge, but will not contribute toward causing the merge in the first
>> place. In a use case where you only add items and never actually
>> delete anything, a merge will never be dynamically triggered.
>>
>> It is plausible that we could add some expiry-statistics measurement
>> and triggering to bitcask, but today that's the state of things. You
>> could manually trigger merges, but that currently requires a bit of
>> Erlang.
>>
>> I hope that this helps.
>>
>> -Justin
>>
>>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\*\*\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/\*\*mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_\*\*lists.basho.com
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

