---
title: "Re: Riak Control"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-09-21T10:21:41-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08634"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg08633"
author_name: "Evan Kinney"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-09-21T10:21:41-07:00
---


CentOS 6 comes with iptables enabled by default. You should either flush the 
tables, save, and restart the iptables/ip6tables daemons, or add rules for the 
ports you have Riak bound on.

/ek

On Sep 21, 2012, at 1:17 PM, Pavel Kogan 
 wrote:

> Well, should be something else. I tried both ways and it still doesn't work.
> Can be blocked by firewall? I am not Linux expert.
> 
> Thanks,
> Pavel
> 
> On Fri, Sep 21, 2012 at 7:12 PM, Evan Kinney  wrote:
> 0.0.0.0 will bind Riak to all configured IPs, so any routable IP assigned to 
> the machine should work.
> 
> /ek
> 
> On Sep 21, 2012, at 1:02 PM, Wes James 
> wrote:
> 
> > If your not directly on the server then you need to change the 0.0.0.0 to 
> > your server actual IP address then put in https://your\_ip:8069/admin in 
> > your local browser - of course after restarting riak.
> >
> > wes
> >
> > On Fri, Sep 21, 2012 at 10:58 AM, Pavel Kogan  
> > wrote:
> > Probably I don't get something.
> > Address: https://127.0.0.1:8069/admin assuming browsing on localhost.
> > However Riak is running on Linux server without Gnome/KDE.
> >
> > Regards,
> > Pavel
> >
> >
> > On Fri, Sep 21, 2012 at 6:54 PM, Wes James  wrote:
> > Hi,
> >
> > On Fri, Sep 21, 2012 at 10:47 AM, Pavel Kogan  
> > wrote:
> > Hi fellows,
> >
> > I have cluster of 2 physical Riak nodes (I know it is not enough) running 
> > on CentOS 6.
> > Now I am trying to configure Riak control - did everything according to 
> > instructions:
> >
> > 1) Enabled HTTPS in app.config
> > {https, [{"0.0.0.0", 8069 }]}
> >
> > Don't you need to change 0.0.0.0 to your systems IP adddress?
> >
> >
> >
> > 2) Generated SSL certificate using this instructions like a parrot.
> >
> > 3) Enabled SSL in app.config
> > {ssl, [
> > {certfile, "/etc/riak/server.csr"},
> > {cacertfile, "/etc/riak/server.crt"},
> > {keyfile, "/etc/riak/server.key"}
> > ]},
> >
> > 4) Enabled riak control in app.config for user guest
> >
> > 5) Restarted Riak on same node with riak stop + riak start
> >
> > Trying to browse from my PC https://server\_ip:8069/admin without any 
> > success.
> >
> > With 0.0.0.0 you should try https://127.0.0.1:8069/admin
> >
> >
> > Does anyone know what/where can be the problem?
> >
> > Regards,
> > Pavel
> >
> >
> >
> > wes
> >
> >
> > \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> > riak-users mailing list
> > riak-users@lists.basho.com
> > http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> 
> 
> 



\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

