---
title: "Re: LevelDB driver"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-07-01T11:53:41-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03914"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg03908"
author_name: "Will Moss"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-07-01T11:53:41-07:00
---


Hey Dave,

This is very cool--glad you guys decided to bundle this in. The linked post
and the Google Code page both suggest that it will have a much more
efficient on-disk representation than InnoDB, do you have an specific
numbers on overhead per key?

Thanks,
Will


On Fri, Jul 1, 2011 at 9:03 AM, David Smith  wrote:

> Hi all,
>
> Yesterday, we merged in support for the LevelDB
> (http://code.google.com/p/leveldb/) as a backend driver for Riak.
>
> Initial benchmarking of LevelDB suggests that it is competitive to
> InnoDB (aka innostore) for most use cases. The recovery model is much
> better, as LevelDB uses an append-only storage system, and the license
> is such that we can include it in the default Riak packages (i.e.
> much, much easier to use).
>
> To get started, grab the latest Riak from Github and use the
> "riak\_kv\_eleveldb\_backend" in app.config as your backend driver. Data
> will be stored in data/leveldb.
>
> We anticipate LevelDB being a good complement to Bitcask. For anything
> approaching random I/O, where it's acceptable for the keyspace to be
> in RAM, bitcask will be very (very) hard to beat. However, if you've
> got a large keyspace that doesn't have purely random I/O, LevelDB will
> useful and meet or exceed the performance characteristics seen with
> Inno. You can find a more complete analysis on our blog:
>
> http://blog.basho.com/2011/07/01/Leveling-the-Field/
>
> As with some of the other major changes landing this summer, we'd
> encourage you NOT to use this in production just yet.
>
> Thanks,
>
> D.
>
> --
> Dave Smith
> Director, Engineering
> Basho Technologies, Inc.
> diz...@basho.com
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

