---
title: "Re: riak memstore clarification on enomem error"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-10-09T03:27:03-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08839"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg08838"
author_name: "Christian Dahlqvist"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-10-09T03:27:03-07:00
---



On 09/10/2012 10:39, sangeetha.pattabiram...@cognizant.com wrote:

Thanks Shane ,

Load script used is as follows (basically a curl)

#!/usr/local/bin/escript
main([Filename]) ->
 {ok, Data} = file:read\_file(Filename),
 Lines = tl(re:split(Data, "\r?\n", [{return, binary},trim])),
 lists:foreach(fun(L) -> LS = re:split(L, ","), format\_and\_insert(LS) end, 
Lines).

format\_and\_insert(Line) ->
 JSON = 
io\_lib:format("{\"id\":\"~s\",\"phonenumber\":~s,\"callednumber\":~s,\"starttime\":~s,\"endtime\":~s,\"status\":~s}",
 Line),
 Command = io\_lib:format("curl -X PUT http://127.0.0.1:8098/riak/CustCalls35m/~s 
-d '~s' -H 'content-type: application/json'", [hd(Line),JSON]),
 io:format("Inserting: ~s~n", [hd(Line)]),
 os:cmd(Command).



you are right shane .after Loading it I confirm the same by querying the 
(1.8GB)35 million dataset with first ,middle and last row 
value(1,15000000,35000000) with id column.hence confirmed its stored onto 
CustCalls35m bucket of riak db.

Regards
Sangeetha


-----Original Message-----
From: riak-users [mailto:riak-users-boun...@lists.basho.com] On Behalf Of Shane 
McEwan
Sent: Tuesday, October 09, 2012 3:00 PM
To: riak-users@lists.basho.com
Subject: Re: riak memstore clarification on enomem error

G'day Sangeetha.

On 09/10/12 07:40, sangeetha.pattabiram...@cognizant.com wrote:

Dear Team ,

 I have a 64 GB RAM ,during the Load of 35 million
dataset (1.8 GB) it consumes nearly 40-45 GB of RAM durial the startup
of the erlang script ,but

While trying to load 40 million dataset (2.1 GB) I am getting the
following error

\*escript: exception error: no match of right hand side value
{error,enomem}\*\*,\*

The error message is coming from escript and not Riak. It's just a guess but 
could it be that the script you're using to load your data into Riak is trying 
to load all the data into memory before sending it to Riak?
Can you break your dataset into smaller chunks and load them separately?
Or send the data to Riak as you read it from the dataset without storing it all 
in memory?


\*2.\*\*Is there a provision to make use of the swap memory in riak
config?\*

Using swap in this situation is almost always a bad idea. Your script will end 
up running so slowly you will be waiting for days, maybe months, for your data 
to load.

Shane.

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
This e-mail and any files transmitted with it are for the sole use of the 
intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential and privileged information. 
If you are not the intended recipient(s), please reply to the sender and 
destroy all copies of the original message. Any unauthorized review, use, 
disclosure, dissemination, forwarding, printing or copying of this email, 
and/or any action taken in reliance on the contents of this e-mail is strictly 
prohibited and may be unlawful.

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com


Hi,

That script does indeed load all lines into memory before processing 
them one by one. Try something like this instead:


#!/usr/local/bin/escript
main([Filename]) ->
 {ok, IoDev} = file:open(Filename, [read, raw, binary, {read\_ahead, 
65536}]),

 process\_file(IoDev).

process\_file(IoDev) ->
 case file:read\_line(IoDev) of
 {ok, Data} ->
 Line = strip\_and\_split(Data),
 JSON = 
io\_lib:format("{\"id\":\"~s\",\"phonenumber\":~s,\"callednumber\":~s,\"starttime\":~s,\"endtime\":~s,\"status\":~s}", 
Line),
 Command = io\_lib:format("curl -X PUT 
http://127.0.0.1:8098/riak/CustCalls35m/~s -d '~s' -H 'content-type: 
application/json'", [hd(Line),JSON]),

 io:format("Inserting: ~s~n", [hd(Line)]),
 os:cmd(Command),
 process\_file(IoDev);
 eof ->
 ok;
 {error, Reason} ->
 io:format("Error processing file: ~p~n", [Reason]),
 error
 end.

strip\_and\_split(Line) ->
 [L | \_] = re:split(Line, "\n"),
 re:split(L, ",").


Best Regards,

Christian

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

