---
title: "Re: Binaries or Strings for Secondary Index in Erlang PB Client?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-01-20T10:17:38-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06339"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06338"
author_name: "Sean Cribbs"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-01-20T10:17:38-08:00
---


Jeremy,

Binaries will more closely represent the internal representation on the
Riak side, so that would probably be the preferred method.

On Fri, Jan 20, 2012 at 11:14 AM, Jeremy Raymond wrote:

> I assume the preferred type to be binaries?
>
> --
> Jeremy
>
>
>
> On Fri, Jan 20, 2012 at 1:07 PM, Sean Cribbs  wrote:
> > Jeremy,
> >
> > We're sorry you ran into this! Please file a bug report or or send a
> > pull-request to the Github project:
> > https://github.com/basho/riak-erlang-client/issues. We will be working
> to
> > resolve inconsistencies like these in the next dev cycle, across all our
> > supported clients.
> >
> > On Fri, Jan 20, 2012 at 9:51 AM, Jeremy Raymond 
> wrote:
> >>
> >> The Erlang PB client gives and takes secondary index information as
> >> binaries in some places and strings in others. For example
> >> riakc\_pb\_socket:get\_index/4 wants the Index and Key as binaries.
> >> Retrieving the index information from the meta data of an object read
> >> out of Riak gives the Index and Key as strings.
> >>
> >> Can strings and binaries be used interchangeable for indexes
> >> throughout the API? Or is is such that the representation inside of a
> >> riak\_obj is a strings, but API functions want it as binaries?
> >>
> >> The inconsistency is a bit of a nuisance. In testing of some of my
> >> application's logic I'm setting an index on a new object using binary
> >> values, I query the index using the binary values, but when I read it
> >> back they're strings.
> >>
> >> --
> >> Jeremy
> >>
> >> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> >> riak-users mailing list
> >> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> >> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> >
> >
> >
> >
> > --
> > Sean Cribbs 
> > Software Engineer
> > Basho Technologies, Inc.
> > http://basho.com/
> >
>



-- 
Sean Cribbs 
Software Engineer
Basho Technologies, Inc.
http://basho.com/
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

