---
title: "Re: Node crashes on start."
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-09-19T06:27:52-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04769"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04768"
author_name: "Daniel Reverri"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-09-19T06:27:52-07:00
---


The crash report indicates the webmachine logger could not start it's logger. 
Specifically, it looks like the configured directory does not exist. Have you 
configured the logger in app. config? Can you check the configured path exists?

Thanks
Dan

Sent from my iPhone

On Sep 19, 2011, at 1:59 AM, Vicky Khanna  wrote:

> Hi,
> 
> 
> 
> I am facing a problem in which riak nodes are unable to merge(I inferred it 
> from sasl-error log).
> 
> I removed all the buckets and started fresh(w/o changing config files)
> 
> As soon as I Start riak nodes… one of the nodes gives the following Crash 
> Report as soon as it starts:-
> 
> 
> 
> =CRASH REPORT==== 19-Sep-2011::08:30:38 ===
> 
> crasher:
> 
> initial call: webmachine\_logger:init/1
> 
> pid: <0.113.0>
> 
> registered\_name: []
> 
> exception exit: 
> {{badmatch,{error,enoent}},[{webmachine\_logger,log\_open,2},{webmachine\_logger,init,1},{gen\_server,init\_it,6},{proc\_lib,init\_p\_do\_apply,3}]}
> 
> in function gen\_server:init\_it/6
> 
> in call from proc\_lib:init\_p\_do\_apply/3
> 
> ancestors: [webmachine\_sup,<0.85.0>]
> 
> messages: []
> 
> links: [<0.86.0>]
> 
> dictionary: []
> 
> trap\_exit: false
> 
> status: running
> 
> heap\_size: 377
> 
> stack\_size: 24
> 
> reductions: 545
> 
> neighbours:
> 
> 
> 
> But inserts data as usual.
> 
> I don't understand if everything is fine then why it is logging a crash 
> report on start.
> 
> Also that what was the reason of not merging some of the records.
> 
> 
> 
> Thanks in Advance
> 
> 
> 
> Vicky Khanna
> 
> 
> 
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

