---
title: "Re: webmachine error"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-12-06T05:17:15-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05865"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04835"
author_name: "Anna Byszkin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-12-06T05:17:15-08:00
---


Hi,

I wasn't sure how to continue an existing thread on the mailing list,
started Sep 23, 2011 by Sohil Raghwani and picked up by Ryan Zezeski later
on. I think I'm having the same problem:

Riak installation:
-----
version 1.0.1 in a 2-node cluster configuration on Ubuntu 11.10 (in the
configuration files, I left most of the settings with default values, only
changed those required for cluster configuration),
Java riak-client version 1.0.1.

Problem:
-----
I couldn't find a key stored in Riak. 'Stored' means that the application
call:
.store(, object.toString()).execute();
finished successfully and I found a relevant info in the application log.
However later I couldn't find this key in Riak.

In the error.log and crash.log files I can see:
------
[error] webmachine error:
path="/riak/elists/84kZEElqXqNCLZ\_ZCQcRHpTbCD5c77AREvB\_K3jGcm4"
{error,{error,{badmatch,{error,closed}},[{webmachine\_request,recv\_unchunked\_body,4},{webmachine\_request,do\_recv\_body,2},{webmachine\_request,call,2},{wrq,req\_body,1},{riak\_kv\_wm\_object,accept\_doc\_body,2},{webmachine\_resource,resource\_call,3},{webmachine\_resource,do,3},{webmachine\_decision\_core,resource\_call,1}]}}
------

Could it be a problem with the cluster configuration or maybe the client
(strange that I didn't get any exception if the store() method failed)?
Don't see any errors in syslog. What else could I check?
Has anyone else seen that (and possibly resolved ;))?

Thanks for any help,
Anna.
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

