---
title: "Re: Issues with Riak Control"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-03-21T15:33:04-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07021"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg07019"
author_name: "charles"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-03-21T15:33:04-07:00
---


I tried Firefox 9, Safari 5, and the latest Chrome. I would hardly consider 
these old browsers. 

-----Original Message-----
From: "Jeffrey Massung" 
Sent: Wednesday, 21 March, 2012 11:22pm
To: char...@contentomni.com
Cc: "riak-users" 
Subject: Re: Issues with Riak Control

This is very much the behavior of older browsers not loading the CSS properly 
and displaying it. IE7, old versions of FireFox, etc. Have you tried Chrome, 
Safari, a latest FireFox, IE8+, etc?

--
Jeffrey Massung
Software Engineer
j...@basho.com

On Mar 21, 2012, at 4:09 PM, char...@contentomni.com wrote:

> I recently installed a Riak (1.1.1) Cluster on Rackspace Cloud Servers. 
> Everything seems to be working ok.
> 
> I set up the configuration to enable Riak Control. However, I am having a few 
> issues using it.
> 
> As soon as I login in it shows me the home page briefly and then it just 
> displays the following in only text:
> 
> Current Snapshot...
> 
> Your cluster is healthy.
> You currently have...
> 0 Unreachable nodes
> 0 Nodes marked as 'down'
> 0 Nodes experiencing low memory
> Nothing to worry about because Riak is your friend
> Your cluster has problems.
> The following nodes are currently unreachable:
> The following nodes are currently marked as 'down':
> The following nodes are currently experiencing low memory:
> 
> The URL has also changed from https://:8069/admin/ui/index.html to 
> https://:8069/admin/ui/templates/snapshot.pjax. It's like it's forcing 
> some kind of redirection and I don't know why.
> 
> Kindly assist,
> 
> Charles.
> 
> 
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com




\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

