---
title: "Re: Ripple + riak confguration"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-11-28T03:37:37-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05745"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg05744"
author_name: "Vamsi Krishna"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-11-28T03:37:37-08:00
---


Hey Mattias,

 Thanks a lot for your quick response, the link you have given as good
information. But, what if I use normal queries for ex: I do User.find("
matt...@gmail.com") or something like that then if the node that is setup
on the ripple.yml is down then it cant information from other nodes and it
became quite a problem to handle/fix this issue.

Regards,
Vamsi.

On Mon, Nov 28, 2011 at 4:37 PM, Mathias Meyer  wrote:

> Vamsi,
>
> there's nothing wrong with your cluster setup. Support for multiple nodes
> in Ripple is being worked on in the master branch, you can have a lookie
> here at the documentation update on how to use it:
> https://github.com/seancribbs/ripple/commit/88fed2bdb1900ccc26fd292b3607d66cbcbe82c4
>
> Cheers, Mathias
>
>
>
>
> On Montag, 28. November 2011 at 11:43, Vamsi Krishna wrote:
>
> > Hi,
> >
> > I was able to set up a riak cluster with 4 nodes. I am using ripple as
> an orm for riak db, but I can only configure with one node. I am getting
> data replicated in other nodes but, the issue is if the configured node
> with ripple is down I was not able to make use of the other nodes. Is there
> a way that I can configure ripple with all those nodes? Or can is there
> something wrong with the cluster setup ? I followed wiki.basho.com (
> http://wiki.basho.com) for the cluster setup.
> >
> > Regards,
> > Vamsi.
> > \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> > riak-users mailing list
> > riak-users@lists.basho.com (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
> > http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

