---
title: "Re: Riak KV ETS Backend?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-06-02T09:59:31-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03531"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg03432"
author_name: "Mark Phillips"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-06-02T09:59:31-07:00
---


Hey Jordan,

To address a few of your questions:

While it's not the most optimal memory-only backend, ETS is certainly
usable in production. That said, if it runs out of gas on you at
larger scales, it wouldn't be that hard to write a better one using
the NIF interface.

Hope that helps.

Mark

On Thu, May 26, 2011 at 11:15 AM, Jordan West  wrote:
> Hi all,
> I'm posting to the list for the first time after talking with Mark
> (ironically, at MongoSF the other day), about a use-case I'm considering
> Riak for. Quickly, I should probably say I've only played with Riak on a
> side project or two, and dabbled with Riak Core thanks to the new GitHub
> blog. Part of the reason I'm writing the list is to determine if for my
> use-case its worth investing significant time learning and prototyping some
> possible implementations with Riak(-Core). Anyways, on to the question:
> Is the ETS Backend in the riak\_kv repo something maintained and endorsed for
> use by the Basho team? I have a dataset which is well suited for a k/v store
> and needs to be eventually consistent across a cluster of Erlang nodes. Riak
> crossed my mind because of those reasons. Also, being able to embed it into
> my application like Mnesia is a plus. However, I could care less in this
> case about losing data. The data is ephemeral anyways as its a map of a
> string assigned per connection to a couple erlang process ids, and hence I
> want to store it in-memory (also want it in memory for performance reasons).
> This data is very read-heavy, but must be available for writes or new
> connections will begin to fail. I know this is not a typical use for Riak,
> since one of its most touted benefits is not losing data but would it be too
> far of a stretch to use Riak as an eventually consistent, in-memory
> key-value store embedded into an Erlang application? If not, I figure this
> is something I could build with Riak Core. Does anyone know if there already
> is a OSS project I could contribute to instead of starting from scratch in
> that case?
> Thanks for your help,
> Jordan West
>
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

