---
title: "Re: riak make fail"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-03-03T02:08:58-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg02534"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg02533"
author_name: "Mohammad Shariq"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-03-03T02:08:58-08:00
---


I have installed libssl-dev
and 'Erlang R13B04' is already installed.
the same error is coming again,

Do I need to install erlang R14B01 ???



On 3 March 2011 14:06, wilson Tuladhar  wrote:

> Hi Mohammad,
>
> It seems that you don't have crypto module of erlang installed.
> \*sudo apt-get install libssl-dev\*
> \*
> \*
> and then recompile the erlang and then this module should be installed.
>
> To check if it is installed, go to erlang shell and do
> erl> l(crypto).
> and you should get the module loaded reponse if not try to reinstall erlang
> R14B01 again and it will get installed.
>
> Hope this helps.
>
> /Wilson
>
> On Thu, Mar 3, 2011 at 9:24 AM, Mohammad Shariq wrote:
>
>> Hi ,
>> 'make all' also produces the same error , Below is the error message :
>>
>> shariq@shariq-box:/mnt/riak-0.14.0$ sudo make all rel
>>
>>
>> fatal: Not a git repository (or any of the parent directories): .git
>> ./rebar get-deps
>> fatal: Not a git repository (or any of the parent directories): .git
>> fatal: Not a git repository (or any of the parent directories): .git
>> fatal: Not a git repository (or any of the parent directories): .git
>> Uncaught error in rebar\_core: {'EXIT',
>> {undef,
>> [{crypto,start,[]},
>> {rebar\_core,run,1},
>> {rebar,main,1},
>> {escript,run,2},
>> {escript,start,1},
>> {init,start\_it,1},
>> {init,start\_em,1}]}}
>> make: \*\*\* [deps] Error 1
>>
>>
>> On 3 March 2011 11:17, Alexander Sicular  wrote:
>>
>>> try ?
>>>
>>> make all && make rel
>>>
>>> -Alexander Sicular
>>>
>>> @siculars
>>>
>>> On Mar 3, 2011, at 12:40 AM, Mohammad Shariq wrote:
>>>
>>> > Below is the Error Message :
>>> >
>>> > shariq@shariq-box:/mnt/riak-0.14.0$ sudo make rel
>>> > fatal: Not a git repository (or any of the parent directories): .git
>>> > ./rebar get-deps
>>> > fatal: Not a git repository (or any of the parent directories): .git
>>> > fatal: Not a git repository (or any of the parent directories): .git
>>> > fatal: Not a git repository (or any of the parent directories): .git
>>> > Uncaught error in rebar\_core: {'EXIT',
>>> > {undef,
>>> > [{crypto,start,[]},
>>> > {rebar\_core,run,1},
>>> > {rebar,main,1},
>>> > {escript,run,2},
>>> > {escript,start,1},
>>> > {init,start\_it,1},
>>> > {init,start\_em,1}]}}
>>> > make: \*\*\* [deps] Error 1
>>> >
>>> >
>>> > Make is failed.
>>> >
>>> >
>>> >
>>> >
>>> > On 2 March 2011 21:30, Dan Reverri  wrote:
>>> > Hi Shariq,
>>> >
>>> > You can ignore this particular error message; the build will still
>>> work. Are you seeing any other error messages? Is the build not working on
>>> your system?
>>> >
>>> > Thanks,
>>> > Dan
>>> >
>>> >
>>> > Daniel Reverri
>>> > Developer Advocate
>>> > Basho Technologies, Inc.
>>> > d...@basho.com
>>> >
>>> >
>>> > On Wed, Mar 2, 2011 at 5:03 AM, Mohammad Shariq 
>>> wrote:
>>> > Hello folk,
>>> > I am trying to Install riak on my system , Ubuntu 10.10, 64 bit.
>>> >
>>> > I downloaded "riak-0.14.0-1.tar.gz"
>>> > unzip it and cd INTO riak-0.14.0
>>> >
>>> > Now I am running the command : sudo make rel
>>> >
>>> > And I am getting the Error message : "fatal: Not a git repository
>>> (or any of the parent directories): .git"
>>> >
>>> >
>>> >
>>> > Please help me, I tried googling but could'nt resolve my problem.
>>> >
>>> >
>>> >
>>> >
>>> > --
>>> > Thanks and Regards
>>> > Shariq
>>> >
>>> >
>>> >
>>> > \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>>> > riak-users mailing list
>>> > riak-users@lists.basho.com
>>> > http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>> >
>>> >
>>> >
>>> >
>>> >
>>> > --
>>> > Thanks and Regards
>>> > Mohammad Shariq
>>> >
>>> >
>>> > \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>>> > riak-users mailing list
>>> > riak-users@lists.basho.com
>>> > http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>>
>>>
>>
>>
>> --
>> Thanks and Regards
>> Mohammad Shariq
>>
>>
>>
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>
>>
>


-- 
Thanks and Regards
Mohammad Shariq
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

