---
title: "Re: diverting riak as a filesystem replacement"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-09-29T06:12:23-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04920"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04877"
author_name: "pille"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-09-29T06:12:23-07:00
---



thanks for all your input.

of course i took a look on all 
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List\_of\_file\_systems#Distributed\_file\_systems
before posting here and wasn't satisfied with those i evaluated 
(fault-tolerant).


it seemed to me that no project like riak implements a \_real\_ shared 
nothing multi-master architecture, which is what i want when i have to 
trust it with my data.


i took a deeper look on ceph, which is my top choice at the moment, but 
it didn't prove itself production ready yet (which it doesn't claim).


@jeremiah: i'm really not looking for a SAN. i want the data to be 
deployed in different datacenters. the problem is, that these are not 
colocations, so i'm stuck with server-hardware they provide. and we 
can't use things like CARP.


unfortunately our demand for capacity is increasing faster than 
anticipated, so waiting for ceph to become stable isn't an option 
anymore. we don't have human resources for developing a good fuse 
bindings ourselves.


of course, if we don't find anything, we can simply scale out our 
active/passive architecture we're running at the moment, but this gets 
more and more complicated, the more servers we throw in.


that's why i'm looking for some beautiful and simple design that 
minimizes the possibility of administrative failures.


cheers
 pille

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

