---
title: "Re: native erlang client on non-Riak node?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-04-05T12:52:57-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07154"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg07152"
author_name: "Alexander Sicular"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-04-05T12:52:57-07:00
---


I think that being able to have a native erlang interface to a riak cluster 
would be a "Good Thing." I can imagine some compute applications that could 
benefit from having access to data at the speed of network but not actually be 
a member of the storage pool.

Just watched Rich Hickey discussing similar concepts employed in his new 
system, Datomic, here, http://www.infoq.com/interviews/hickey-datomic . Worth 
the 30min.

-Alexander Sicular

@siculars

On Apr 5, 2012, at 3:30 PM, Ryan Zezeski wrote:

> Mike,
> 
> The native Erlang client was never designed to be used in this fashion, as 
> you are finding out first hand. You are correct in that some operations 
> assume they are running on the Riak VM, e.g. mapred\_dynamic\_inputs\_stream.
> 
> Normally I would say not to establish a Erlang dist connection to the Riak 
> cluster but given you need a work around for the performance issue it seems 
> to be your only good choice ATM. You can use `rpc:call` to invoke the mapred 
> queries.
> 
> -Z
> 
> On Wed, Apr 4, 2012 at 2:40 PM, Michael Radford  wrote:
> In case anyone else is wondering, the answer is no, the native client
> isn't fully usable from a non-Riak node.
> 
> I started a hidden node and connected to one of my Riak nodes using
> riak:client\_connect. The returned client is able to successfully
> execute Client:get(Bucket, Key) (and probably other simple things like
> put/delete), but it fails on mapred with a {modfun, ...} input. 
> 
> The problem is that the native client tries to run the input function
> on the local node, rather than the node the client points to, which of
> course won't work unless the local node is participating in the Riak
> cluster.
> 
> Mike
> 
> On Tue, Apr 3, 2012 at 9:43 AM, Michael Radford  wrote:
> > Is it OK to use Riak's native erlang client from an erlang node that's
> > connected to a Riak cluster via normal erlang distribution
> > (net\_adm:ping etc.), but isn't participating in the Riak cluster? I'm
> > wondering if e.g. Riak makes any assumptions about nodes listed in
> > nodes(), or the nodes of processes running client code, that would
> > break if a node isn't running Riak.
> >
> > I'm trying to figure out a fallback strategy in case I can't resolve
> > performance issues I'm seeing with the protocol buffers client (see
> > other thread about slow searches). The scariest option would be to
> > run my application on the same nodes as Riak, which seems like it
> > would complicate operations too much. Or if
> > connected-but-not-participating nodes aren't a good idea, maybe my
> > application nodes could each start a slave node with -hidden, which
> > would then connect to Riak and act as a proxy?
> >
> > Mike
> 
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> 
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

