---
title: "Re: Storing relationship data"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-12-30T15:47:44-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01861"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg01860"
author_name: "Justin Sheehy"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-12-30T15:47:44-08:00
---


Hi, Bryan.

The link data is embedded in the riak\_object metadata, so you can
easily observe it from outside Riak even when not performing
link-walking queries.

To see this in action, check out the "Link" headers when using the
HTTP interface.

-Justin



On Thu, Dec 30, 2010 at 6:36 PM, Bryan Nagle
 wrote:
> Hi,
> For the project that I am currently working on, we are trying to decide on
> the best way to store relational data in riak.  At first glance, the obvious
> choice looks to be links, however one of our requirements is that this
> relationship information has to be sent to a client along with actual data.
>  The client has to be able to map the relationships between the
> data solely from the information it receives while being completely outside
> of Riak.
> So, I was wondering if anyone had any suggestions?  We are considering
> either encapsulating our relationship data within the riak store itself (in
> the value tied to the key), or using riak links.  However, if we use riak
> links, then we have to convert those links into data that the client can
> receive & understand when sending data, and then convert the data we get
> back from the client into riak links;  we are wondering if this extra step
> is worth implementing this kind of a translation.
> Bryan Nagle
> Liquid Analytics
> bryan.na...@liquidanalytics.com
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

