---
title: "Re: riak search"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-03-15T09:58:03-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg02653"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg02652"
author_name: "Saurabh Sehgal"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-03-15T09:58:03-07:00
---


I mean functionality similar to solr, where data can incrementally be pulled
out of a relational store to index. Is there support to automatically pull
data out of riak incrementally, and then index it using riak-search. (I am
fairly new to these concepts, so please let me know if something does not
make sense).

On Tue, Mar 15, 2011 at 9:53 AM, Saurabh Sehgal wrote:

> Hi Sean,
>
> Please let me know if I am wrong - but according to my understanding, the
> documents to index should reside on disk (the example on the wiki indexes
> \*.txt files in a directory). What if my data is not written to files, but
> exists in a riak bucket. Do I have to pull it out and store it in a file on
> disk to be able to index it ?
>
> Also, do you know if there are any erlang clients/helper libs for solr. I
> could not find any. Can the post commit hooks in riak be written in Java ?
>
> Thank you,
>
> Saurabh
>
>
> On Tue, Mar 15, 2011 at 5:27 AM, Sean Cribbs  wrote:
>
>> Saurabh,
>>
>> If you want to go with Solr, you have a few options:
>>
>> 1) Use application code to post an  document to Solr when saving your
>> data into Riak.
>> 2) Implement a Riak post-commit hook in Erlang to do the same, or to queue
>> the additions to another process that can submit them to Solr.
>>
>> I think you'll find that while on-disk indexes sound bad, that's actually
>> how Solr does them too, and not every index query will hit disk on either
>> system. The primary difference is that Riak Search is tightly integrated
>> with Riak KV and so you get a lot for free when you choose Riak Search,
>> including auto-indexing and MapReduce queries that start with a search.
>>
>> Sean Cribbs 
>> Developer Advocate
>> Basho Technologies, Inc.
>> http://basho.com/
>>
>> On Mar 15, 2011, at 2:08 AM, Saurabh Sehgal wrote:
>>
>> Hi,
>>
>> Since riak search is marked as "Beta Software" on the wiki, I am skeptical
>> to use it in production.
>>
>> Does riak offer any APIs or integration points that would allow me to
>> index data into Solr ?
>> Specifically, I am storing key/value pairs in riak, where the value is a
>> binary erlang term containing a tuple of text I would like to index.
>>
>> Also, going through the riak search documentation, the erlang API seems to
>> only have the capability of indexing documents
>> on disk as files (please correct me if this isn't true). Is there
>> functionality to automatically retrieve and index documents already stored
>> in riak ?
>> --
>>
>> Saurabh
>>
>>
>> --
>> Saurabh Sehgal
>> E-mail: saurabh....@gmail.com
>> Phone: <425-269-1324>425-269-1324
>> LinkedIn: http://www.linkedin.com/pub/1/7a3/436
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>
>>
>>
>
>
> --
> Saurabh Sehgal
> E-mail: saurabh....@gmail.com
> Phone: 425-269-1324
> LinkedIn: http://www.linkedin.com/pub/1/7a3/436
>



-- 
Saurabh Sehgal
E-mail: saurabh....@gmail.com
Phone: 425-269-1324
LinkedIn: http://www.linkedin.com/pub/1/7a3/436
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

