---
title: "RE: Reasons for using gen_server to gather statictics with folsom"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-08-13T00:54:22-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08272"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg08260"
author_name: "Zhemzhitsky Sergey"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-08-13T00:54:22-07:00
---


Hi guys,

Any updates on these questions?

I’ve read the following blog entry 
http://basho.com/blog/technical/2012/07/02/folsom-backed-stats-riak-1-2/ and 
still haven’t found the answers.

As far as I understand riak\_core\_stat\_cache caches stats using ets, so I’m 
wondering why statistics that is stored in ets is cached using ets?
Is it correct that calls to folsom\_metrics are done via gen\_server to decrease 
the possibility of losing ets tables that are bound to a concrete process?


Best Regards,
Sergey

From: riak-users-boun...@lists.basho.com 
[mailto:riak-users-boun...@lists.basho.com] On Behalf Of Zhemzhitsky Sergey
Sent: Friday, August 10, 2012 6:33 PM
To: riak-users@lists.basho.com
Subject: Reasons for using gen\_server to gather statictics with folsom

Hi riak gurus,

Recently riak 1.2 has been released that uses folsom library to gather 
statistics.

I’d like to use the same library (folsom) in my application so could you answer 
the following questions:


1. Why separate gen\_servers (riak\_api\_stat, riak\_core\_stat, riak\_kv\_stat) 
were used to gather statistics instead of the direct calls to folsom\_metrics 
through some more high-level api?

2. What is the purpose of riak\_core\_stat\_cache and what it is intended to 
do?


Best Regards,
Sergey


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_



The information contained in this message may be privileged and conf idential 
and protected from disclosure. If you are not the original intended recipient, 
you are hereby notified that any review, retransmission, dissemination, or 
other use of, or taking of any action in reliance upon, this information is 
prohibited. If you have received this communication in error, please notify the 
sender immediately by replying to this message and delete it from your 
computer. Thank you for your cooperation. Troika Dialog, Russia.

If you need assistance please contact our Contact Center (+7495) 258 0500 or go 
to 
www.troika.ru/eng/Contacts/system.wbp


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

