---
title: "[RFC] Python client: move to properties"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-09-14T04:31:02-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04693"
author_name: "Greg Stein"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-09-14T04:31:02-07:00
---


Hi all,

There are some non-Pythonic patterns in riak-python-client that should
be pretty easy to switch. Things like client.get\_r() and
client.set\_r() are kinda silly. Python long ago moved past the
getter/setter paradigm, with the notion of directly exposing instance
attributes. As Guido has said numerous times, "we're all adults here",
so we don't need to wrap simple attribute access/change in methods
which do exactly that anyways. Just allow apps to directly change it,
since the developers doing that \*are\* adults and know what they're
doing.

For something like bucket.get\_r()... first: it should not have a
damned argument that is returned if you pass in a value. That is
nonsense. Don't call the function if you're going to pass an argument!
The remaining logic looks at a local value, or defers to the client
default value. We can make "bucket.r" a property, and create a getter
that does the right thing. Applications can then use "bucket.r" and
they will get the right logic, rather than the messier
"bucket.get\_r()".

There are similar changes throughout (eg. get\_transport).

But... this goes back to a question that I've raised earlier: what
kinds of API guarantees are being made on the interface? Can we simply
get rid of the .get\_r() method? If we choose to do so, is there a
deprecation policy? With a policy in place, then it would be easier
for me (and others) to provide patches, knowing that they conform to
compatibility requirements. As it stands, I'd be happy to code a
patch, but am wary that my effort would be rejected per some
(unstated) policy.

I don't know how much of a compatibility policy lies with Basho or the
community. Dunno how to help there.

And back to the start: can we get the code simplified, and move
towards properties?

Cheers,
-g

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

