---
title: "Re: Bucket properties "reset" to the default"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-05-19T10:45:25-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07486"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg07485"
author_name: "Steve Warren"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-05-19T10:45:25-07:00
---


Ahh, perfect! Now I understand exactly what happened. :)

The one cumbersome/disturbing aspect I'm finding with this so far is that
if I want to have my "sessions" bucket targeted to a specific backend I
believe I have to set that property on each node individually and restart
the node. If I add a new node, I think I have to do this before the node
joins the cluster.

On Sat, May 19, 2012 at 10:38 AM, Sean Cribbs  wrote:

> Steve,
>
> Depending on the platform you installed Riak on, the ring data might live
> in '/var/lib/riak/ring' whereas your Bitcask K/V data will live in
> '/var/lib/riak/bitcask' by default. On non-Linux systems, those directories
> will be different.
>
> On Sat, May 19, 2012 at 1:32 PM, Steve Warren  wrote:
>
>> I see, so I must have cleared the properties out somewhere along the way
>> (although I'm not sure what ring files are, or how I would clear them).
>> Thank you for the feedback, I will keep an eye on this to make sure I
>> understand it completely!
>>
>> Cheers
>> Steve
>>
>>
>> On Sat, May 19, 2012 at 10:12 AM, Sean Cribbs  wrote:
>>
>>> Steve,
>>>
>>> Any bucket properties you set via the client interfaces are stored in
>>> the ring structure and should persist independent of any data in the
>>> cluster. Be careful that when you are clearing session data that you are
>>> not also clearing the ring files.
>>>
>>> On Sat, May 19, 2012 at 10:07 AM, Steve Warren wrote:
>>>
>>>> Hi,
>>>> I have configured Riak to store sessions in a separate bitcask
>>>> backend which has an expiration set. What I observe though is that when all
>>>> sessions are expired (overnight), the properties I set on the bucket revert
>>>> to the default bucket properties. Is there a way to make these bucket
>>>> properties permanent without making them the default for the entire 
>>>> cluster?
>>>>
>>>> Regards
>>>>
>>>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>>>> riak-users mailing list
>>>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>>>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>>>
>>>>
>>>
>>>
>>> --
>>> Sean Cribbs 
>>> Software Engineer
>>> Basho Technologies, Inc.
>>> http://basho.com/
>>>
>>>
>>
>
>
> --
> Sean Cribbs 
> Software Engineer
> Basho Technologies, Inc.
> http://basho.com/
>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

