---
title: "Re: Riak Adoption - What can we do better?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-04-24T11:56:07-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07309"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg07286"
author_name: "Thomas Burdick"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-04-24T11:56:07-07:00
---


Hi!

I guess I'd really love to see the equivalent feature set that the
distributed Erlang client (riak\_client.erl) has in the PB client \*OR\* the
distributed Erlang client as a usable library.

Really it just comes down to ease of use. I'd love to have a Erlang client
that makes it extremely easy to connect to the whole ring of nodes and
magically pick the right nodes to talk to, knowing when and if a node is
down or added and continuing to work appropriately. As a bonus I'd love to
be able to just directly use my own modules for MR functions without having
to deploy them to riak nodes in some manner. Like having the PB client let
me upload a .erl file and have it be available for usage in MR work would
be awesome. Give people a default flag of disabled for that if you guys
feel its a huge security hole.

Thanks!

Tom Burdick


On Mon, Apr 23, 2012 at 12:33 PM, Mark Phillips  wrote:

> Update: I'm working on rolling this thread into a blog post with a summary
> of all these suggestions and what we're doing to address them in the short
> and long term. This will be out today with any luck.
>
> Thanks for this. Never have I been so excited by people pointing out our
> shortcomings. :)
>
> Mark
>
>
> On Sat, Apr 21, 2012 at 2:25 PM, Les Mikesell wrote:
>
>> On Sat, Apr 21, 2012 at 12:55 PM, Gideon de Kok  wrote:
>> > Op zaterdag 21 april 2012, om 19:50 heeft Les Mikesell het volgende
>> > geschreven:
>> >
>> > Is there 'something like redis' that doesn't introduce a single point
>> > of failure? And a completely different set of administrative
>> > concepts?
>> >
>> > A different, Riak only, approach is to safe the sorted keys in a Riak
>> > object:
>> > - You could have a sorted list of keys in a array in a user object for
>> > instance.
>>
>> That seems to assume that a single client has all the keys at once.
>> What if your clients and the data sources are distributed as well?
>> And if that could work reliably from a set of clients, why can't the
>> server side do it?
>>
>> --
>> Les Mikesell
>> lesmikes...@gmail.com
>>
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>
>
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

