---
title: "Re: riak failed to start"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-10-09T10:27:39-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08850"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg08847"
author_name: "Evan Vigil-McClanahan"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-10-09T10:27:39-07:00
---


You'll either need to upgrade to a post-5.2 version of RHEL, or
rebuild the package from source using erlang R14B04. Riak 1.2
packages are built with erlang R15B01, which has some issues with
kernel headers.

Says a colleague: "When starting erlang, the message
pthread/ethr\_event.c:98: Fatal error in wait\_\_(): Function not
implemented (38) is, on modern distros, most likely the result of a
precompiled Erlang binary interacting with a kernel that doesn't
implement FUTEX\_WAIT\_PRIVATE and FUTEX\_WAKE\_PRIVATE."

On Tue, Oct 9, 2012 at 10:13 AM, B.T. Jagadeesh Kumar
 wrote:
> Its RHEL 5.1 and its 64 bit machine..
>
> Regards,
> B.T. Jagadeesh Kumar
>
>
> On 10/9/2012 10:44 PM, Evan Vigil-McClanahan wrote:
>>
>> What version of which Linux distribution are you using?
>>
>> Riak 1.2 has some issues running from package on Centos/RHEL 5.2 and
>> earlier.
>>
>> On Tue, Oct 9, 2012 at 6:02 AM, B.T. Jagadeesh Kumar
>>  wrote:
>>>
>>> Hi,
>>>
>>> Can some one please help me in setting up RIAK. I am getting the below
>>> error at start up.
>>> And we used " riak-1.2.0-1.el5.x86\_64.rpm" latest rpm to setup the riak.
>>>
>>> [BL]# riak start
>>> Attempting to restart script through sudo -H -u riak
>>> pthread/ethr\_event.c:98: Fatal error in wait\_\_(): Function not
>>> implemented
>>> (38)
>>> pthread/ethr\_event.c:98: Fatal error in wait\_\_(): Function not
>>> implemented
>>> (38)
>>> Error reading /etc/riak/app.config
>>>
>>> Thanks in advance.
>>>
>>> --
>>> Regards,
>>> B.T. Jagadeesh Kumar
>>>
>>>
>>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>>> riak-users mailing list
>>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

