---
title: "Re: Is Riak suitable for s small-record write-intensive	billion-records application?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-10-19T04:57:31-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08977"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg08974"
author_name: "Guido Medina"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-10-19T04:57:31-07:00
---


Riak is all about high availability, if eventually consistent data is 
not a problem OR, you can cover those aspects of the CAP concept with an 
in-memory caching system and a sort of a locking mechanism to emulate 
the core atomic action of your application (put-if-absent) then I would 
say, you are in the right place, now, Riak uses bloom filters and the 
hashing mechanism from Google code (this is not my expertise though so I 
could be wrong), you should be fine by letting Riak manage your hashing 
and equals concept


And from the Java world, if Object A equals Object B then Object A hash 
equals Object B hash, not the opposite though, two object can have the 
same hash and still not be equal. If that is what you are referring to 
by "symmetric".


Hashing a key is a no brainier job if Riak delegates that to whatever 
best practice algorithm should be use for hashing, in this case I 
strongly believe they are using Google's algorithms, all indicates they 
do because of the Bloom filters (To tidy up both concepts they should 
somehow) they are using from Google.


All this said, it is at your hands and tools to have an in-memory cache 
and locking mechanism.


HTH !!!

Guido.

On 19/10/12 07:10, Yassen Damyanov wrote:

On Fri, Oct 19, 2012, Yassen Damyanov  wrote:

Whatever the solution, it needs to be symmetric, that is, all
nodes must be equivalent.

With "symmetric" I mean more "interchangable" than "functionally
equal". That is,
if a node plays a central role and goes down, the system should be
able to pick a new "master" on its own and any other node should be
able to become such.

Guys, your input is MUCH appreciated. Thank you!
Yassen

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com



\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

