---
title: "Re: Riak and SEC Filings"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-11-08T07:05:46-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05474"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg05471"
author_name: "Andres Jaan Tack"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-11-08T07:05:46-08:00
---


>
> \* Given that the documents total ~1TB of storage (not including the
> generated indexes), does something like decreasing the n\_val make sense?
> Mostly the documents are bulk inserted on a daily or weekly basis – other
> than that all of the operations are read-only.


The N replication factor determines reliability of the data. If you have
N=1, losing one node of the cluster means you have DEFINITELY lost data. On
the other hand, the value of raising N diminishes iteratively and begins to
waste resources. So it depends: if you don't care about losing data (e.g.
if you can just replace the missing documents), lower N as needed.

--Tack

2011/11/8 Hector Castro 

> Hello,
>
> I'm currently in the process of evaluating solutions to index the contents
> of ~1TB of SEC (Securities and Exchange Commission) documents. File sizes
> vary between a few KB to a couple hundred KB. I started evaluating Riak
> first because ease of setting up and expanding a cluster are primary
> requirements (ElasticSearch is also probably going to get evaluated, along
> with Solr).
>
> Below I have a few specific questions that I was hoping people could help
> with:
>
> \* In going through the search querying documentation, I haven't
> found a way to extract a section of a result containing matches. Something
> similar to Google's search results page where you see an excerpt of the
> webpage contents that match your query. Is something like this built-in so
> that it doesn't have to be done by the application?
> \* Given that the documents total ~1TB of storage (not including the
> generated indexes), does something like decreasing the n\_val make sense?
> Mostly the documents are bulk inserted on a daily or weekly basis – other
> than that all of the operations are read-only.
>
> Other than these specific questions, if anyone can provide general insight
> on issues that would arise from a dataset like this within Riak, please
> feel free to mention them.
>
> Thanks,
>
> --
> Hector
>
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

