---
title: "Re: Python client: three issues"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-09-04T19:12:44-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04571"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04569"
author_name: "Brett Hoerner"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-09-04T19:12:44-07:00
---


On Sun, Sep 4, 2011 at 7:05 PM, Greg Stein  wrote:
> 1. I'd like Riak to generate keys for some of my objects, and I'm
> using the HTTP API. Pretty simple: do a POST, and the Location: header
> will tell me the key. However, looking at the code... it doesn't
> appear that object.store() actually reads and returns that key. Am I
> missing something here? Maybe there is a Proper Way to do this?

You're right, it looks like this functionality was added without the
logic to pull the key back out of the response. It definitely should.

https://github.com/basho/riak-python-client/pull/24/files



> 2. The HTTP transport code doesn't use httplib properly at all. When I
> wrote the httplib library, my primary design point was to enable
> persistent, HTTP/1.1 connections. That was the whole idea behind
> HTTPConnection. The transport library opens a \*new\* connection for
> every request. I'm not surprised that the performance suffers, since a
> TCP setup handshake needs to occur on every request. ... So: are there
> any plans to rebuild the HTTP support to use persistent connections?

I believe I've read that Riak itself doesn't support keep-alive.
Someone else would have to comment for sure here. Regardless, this
feature would be handy because many people use Riak over HTTP through
a reverse proxy.



> 3. The Luwak support reads the \*entire\* "file" into memory. My
> understanding is that Luwak is for "large" files. If those files are
> (say) a gigabyte, then the current code is going to impact clients in
> a \*very\* bad way. I can see that the code wants to read the response,
> then return the connection back to the pool... but that just isn't
> workable. A connection needs to be held by the reader, which then
> streams it to completion (or close), and only then should the
> connection be returned. Now, if Luwak is defined for files less than
> (say) 10 megabytes, then maybe this approach isn't wrong, but I
> haven't seen any documentation about size limitations. Any thoughts on
> this?

You're 100% right that it should spool to disk, Luwak is meant for
very large files.


The Python client has been pretty quiet in my experience (though I
only started messing with it about a month ago). I'm sure patches for
any/all of the above are welcome. I'm hoping the Basho guys have
someone on it to review pull requests and such sooner than later.

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

