---
title: "Re: Getting Error reading	/home/u1c332/riak-1.2.1/dev/dev1/etc/app.config"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-12-19T15:01:29-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg09641"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg09638"
author_name: "Evan Vigil-McClanahan"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-12-19T15:01:29-08:00
---


For some reason your version of erlang is printing the string "Running
Erlang" every time it starts. It doesn't normally do this.

I am not sure where this error is coming from, as it doesn't seem to
be a normal part of starting erlang.

On Wed, Dec 19, 2012 at 5:30 PM, Chenini, Mohamed  wrote:
> I installed Erlang R15B03 and re-installed riak but I am still seeing the
> same error when I start a riak node:
>
> ~/riak-1.2.1/dev> dev1/bin/riak start
> Error reading /home/u1c332/riak-1.2.1/dev/dev1/etc/app.config
> Running Erlang ok
>
> ~/riak-1.2.1/dev> dev2/bin/riak start
> Error reading /home/u1c332/riak-1.2.1/dev/dev2/etc/app.config
> Running Erlang ok
>
> ~/riak-1.2.1/dev> dev3/bin/riak start
> Error reading /home/u1c332/riak-1.2.1/dev/dev3/etc/app.config
> Running Erlang ok
>
> ~/riak-1.2.1/dev> dev4/bin/riak start
> Error reading /home/u1c332/riak-1.2.1/dev/dev4/etc/app.config
> Running Erlang ok
>
>
>
>
> -----Original Message-----
> From: Evan Vigil-McClanahan [mailto:emcclana...@basho.com]
> Sent: Wednesday, December 19, 2012 4:00 PM
> To: Chenini, Mohamed; riak-users
> Subject: Re: Getting Error reading
> /home/u1c332/riak-1.2.1/dev/dev1/etc/app.config
>
> Err, this should go to the list as well.
>
> On Wed, Dec 19, 2012 at 3:59 PM, Evan Vigil-McClanahan
>  wrote:
>> 1.2.1 is meant to be built with R15B01 with HIPE disabled.
>>
>> As for that error, it looks like erlang is producing some unexpected
>> output (the 'Running Erlang' part). It should be working, though.
>>
>> On my system, both R15B01 and R15B02 don't produce that output. Could
>> you try with one of those versions and see if that works?
>>
>> I'll see if I can replicate your behavior with R15.
>>
>> On Wed, Dec 19, 2012 at 3:48 PM, Chenini, Mohamed 
>> wrote:
>>>
>>>
>>> I installed riak-1.2.1 and ran
>>>
>>>
>>>
>>> make devrel
>>>
>>>
>>>
>>> ~/riak-1.2.1/dev> ll
>>>
>>> total 16
>>>
>>> drwxr-x--- 9 u1c332 wasgroup 4096 2012-12-19 15:23 dev1
>>>
>>> drwxr-x--- 9 u1c332 wasgroup 4096 2012-12-19 15:23 dev2
>>>
>>> drwxr-x--- 9 u1c332 wasgroup 4096 2012-12-19 15:24 dev3
>>>
>>> drwxr-x--- 9 u1c332 wasgroup 4096 2012-12-19 15:25 dev4
>>>
>>>
>>>
>>> u1c332@plun2102:~/riak-1.2.1/dev/dev1/etc> chmod 777 app.config
>>>
>>>
>>>
>>> ~/riak-1.2.1/dev/dev1/etc> ll
>>>
>>> -rwxrwxrwx 1 u1c332 wasgroup 11848 2012-09-26 00:22 app.config
>>>
>>>
>>>
>>> u1c332@plun2102:~/riak-1.2.1/dev> dev1/bin/riak start
>>>
>>> Error reading /home/u1c332/riak-1.2.1/dev/dev1/etc/app.config
>>>
>>> Running Erlang ok
>>>
>>>
>>>
>>>
>>>
>>> I have Erlang R15B (erts-5.9) installed.
>>>
>>>
>>>
>>> erl
>>>
>>> Erlang R15B (erts-5.9) [source] [64-bit] [smp:2:2] [async-threads:0]
>>> [hipe] [kernel-poll:false]
>>>
>>>
>>>
>>> Running Erlang
>>>
>>> Eshell V5.9 (abort with ^G)
>>>
>>>
>>>
>>> Do I need a more current version of Erlang?
>>>
>>>
>>>
>>> Please advise.
>>>
>>>
>>>
>>> Thanks,
>>>
>>> Mohamed
>>>
>>> ====================
>>> This email/fax message is for the sole use of the intended
>>> recipient(s) and may contain confidential and privileged information.
>>> Any unauthorized review, use, disclosure or distribution of this
>>> email/fax is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient,
>>> please destroy all paper and electronic copies of the original message.
>>>
>>>
>>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>>> riak-users mailing list
>>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>>
>
>
> ====================
> This email/fax message is for the sole use of the intended
> recipient(s) and may contain confidential and privileged information.
> Any unauthorized review, use, disclosure or distribution of this
> email/fax is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient, please
> destroy all paper and electronic copies of the original message.

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

