---
title: "Riak Recap for 8/20 - 8/22"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-08-23T09:49:02-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00933"
author_name: "Mark Phillips"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-08-23T09:49:02-07:00
---


Morning, Afternoon, Evening to all,

Hope everyone had a great weekend. For today's recap: Map/Reduce in
Clojure, the beginnings of Riak + Haskell, Bitcask compaction, and
much more.

Enjoy,

Mark

Community Manager
Basho Technologies
wiki.basho.com
twitter.com/pharkmillups

----

Riak Recap for 8/20 - 8/22


1) @old\_sound has been experimenting with doing M/R in Riak using
Clojure. He just posted a great overview with code examples and a
pointer to his new "closerl" repo.

Post here ---> 
http://videlalvaro.github.com/2010/08/riak-map-reduce-queries-in-clojure.html

2) For all you Haskell fans out there...This repo surfaced a few days
ago ---> http://github.com/cmoore/database-riak

It's "the very beginnings of a Riak module for Haskell" so keep that
in mind, but it's something to watch nonetheless.

Thanks, Clint!

3) dizzyd and demmonoid had a few words in #riak about compaction in
bitcask and how to trigger it.

Gist here ---> http://gist.github.com/545756

4) wayneeseguin, seancribbs, dysinger and bingledac had a brief
conversation that started with, "Can Riak handle merging of say 10
partitions each of 200G and looking as a single data store from
without? "

Check it out here ---> http://gist.github.com/545760

5) Q --- Is the riakc\_pb client the preferred client to use for
Erlang-based access to Riak? (from sfalcon via #riak)

 A --- Yes.

6) dizzyd and others put in some good work to chase down an issue
sfalcon was having while testing Riak with the Erlang PB client. The
issue ended up being related to an already-open ticket, but it's still
worth the read.

Gist here ---> http://gist.github.com/545789

7) Q --- Hey guys, quick data design question: is it fair to say that
a bucket in Riak typically (though not always) maps to a table in a
typical RDBMS? (from TheColonial via #riak)

 A --- Sometimes, though "typically" might be a bit strong as I
would say that data modeling approaches differ somewhat when thinking
in terms of bucketed k/v pairs with links as compared to tables. You
can do many of the same things, but not all, and the structures don't
quite serve the same purpose.

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

