---
title: "Re: CRASH REPORT Process <<"TypeError: reduce of empty array with no	initial value">>},{<<"source">>,<<"unknown">>}]}"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-12-21T23:55:35-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg09667"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg09666"
author_name: "David Montgomery"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-12-21T23:55:35-08:00
---


Hi

As an update.......I did get it to work and still wondering if correct even
though I did get data.

filters = key\_filter.tokenize(":",5).eq(country) \
 & key\_filter.tokenize(":", 2).eq(campaign\_id) \
 & key\_filter.tokenize(":", 4).string\_to\_int().less\_than\_eq(date\_end) \
 & key\_filter.tokenize(":",
4).string\_to\_int().greater\_than\_eq(date\_start)
 query.add\_key\_filters(filters)

I changed the & to a | for the date range. This was a tough bug to track
down yet so simple and image that is why I get the error in the log file.

Thanks



On Sat, Dec 22, 2012 at 3:39 PM, David Montgomery  wrote:

> Hi,
>
> Thanks...... in my mapper I added obj={} which I left out.
>
> But still cant get MR to work but left out that i am using filters. I get
> the same error and am wondering if I am using key filters correct.
> {'uuid':1,'campaign\_id':2,'adgroup\_id':3,'date':4,'country':5}
>
> filters = key\_filter.tokenize(":",5).eq(country) \
> & key\_filter.tokenize(":", 2).eq(campaign\_id) \
> & key\_filter.tokenize(":", 4).string\_to\_int().less\_than\_eq(date\_end) \
> & key\_filter.tokenize(":",
> 4).string\_to\_int().greater\_than\_eq(date\_start)
> query.add\_key\_filters(filters)
>
> '[['and', [['tokenize', ':', 5], ['eq', 'SG']], [['tokenize', ':', 2],
> ['eq', 'cid5989410021']], [['tokenize', ':', 4], ['string\_to\_int'],
> ['less\_than\_eq', '2012122509']], [['tokenize', ':', 4],
> ['string\_to\_int'], ['greater\_than\_eq', '2012121810']]]]
>
> If I leave out & key\_filter.tokenize(":",
> filter\_map['date']).string\_to\_int().greater\_than\_eq(date\_start) the query
> works and I get the data I want. If I include then I get the error.
> So...what I cant figure out is why I cant use the last filter. My key
> looks like this.
> 07712f3d-6661-44a7-89ff-4e4ed3b5f5a6:cid5989410021:agid7744464312:2012122205:SG
>
> uuid:campaign\_id:aid:date:country where date is in YYYYMMDDHH format
>
> I just want a query that will filter by campaign\_id, country, and between
> a date range.
>
> thanks
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
> On Thu, Dec 20, 2012 at 11:07 PM, Bryan Fink  wrote:
>
>> On Thu, Dec 20, 2012 at 8:52 AM, David Montgomery
>>  wrote:
>> >
>> {fitting\_exited\_abnormally,[{<<"lineno">>,3},{<<"message">>,<<"TypeError:
>> > reduce of empty array with no initial value">>}
>>
>> Hi, David. The error is occurring on line three of your reduce
>> function, where it calls `values.reduce`:
>>
>> > query.reduce('''
>> > function(values, arg){
>> > return [ values.reduce( function(acc, item) {
>> ...
>>
>> It's complaining about the fact that `values` is an empty array, so
>> `values.reduce` doesn't know what to do. You will need to either
>> include an initial value as a second parameter, like:
>>
>> values.reduce(function(acc, item) { ... },
>> {}) //initial empty object
>>
>> Or check to see if `values` is empty before reducing, like the Riak JS
>> reduce builtins do:
>>
>> https://github.com/basho/riak\_kv/blob/master/priv/mapred\_builtins.js#L68
>>
>> Cheers,
>> Bryan
>>
>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

