---
title: "Re: riak_dt"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-01-28T07:29:44-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg09892"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg09888"
author_name: "Russell Brown"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-01-28T07:29:44-08:00
---


I just pushed an updated 'riak-dt' branch to the riak repo on github.

Just pull the branch and build and you should have a working riak\_dt.

Let me know if you have any issues

Cheers

Russell

On 26 Jan 2013, at 10:54, Petter Egesund  wrote:

> Great, thanks - I will stay tuned :-)
> 
> Petter
> 
> 
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> Fra: Russell Brown [russell.br...@me.com]
> Sendt: 25. januar 2013 19:52
> Til: Petter Egesund
> Kopi: riak-users List
> Emne: Re: riak\_dt
> 
> Hi Petter,
> 
>> Hi
>> 
>> I would like to use Riak, but counters is a must in this project. They are 
>> so handy :-)
>> 
>> I tried to build the riak-dt, but the build-system seems broken. I get this 
>> when i do make devrel:
>> 
>> ERROR: generate failed while processing /Users/petter/erlang/riak/rel: 
>> {'EXIT',{{badmatch,{error,"luke: : Missing application directory."}},
>> [{rebar\_reltool,generate,2,[]},
>> {rebar\_core,run\_modules,4,[]},
>> {rebar\_core,execute,5,[]},
>> {rebar\_core,process\_dir0,6,[]},
>> {rebar\_core,process\_dir,4,[]},
>> {rebar\_core,process\_commands,2,[]},
>> {rebar,main,1,[]},
>> {escript,run,2,[{file,"escript.erl"},{line,741}]}]}}
>> 
>> Any clues?
> 
> I think the riak-dt branch of riak has got a bit stale and needs a rebase. 
> I'll do that today and post back when I have it working.
> 
>> 
>> The riak-dt does also seem a little bit forgotten - no commits in a couple 
>> of months. Is it still planned?
> 
> Riak\_dt, or something like it \_is\_ still planned. We're working out how best 
> to integrate CRDTs in general (and counters in particular) into Riak\_kv. In 
> the meantime I'll fix up that experimental branch.
> 
> Cheers
> 
> Russell
> 
>> 
>> Cheers,
>> 
>> Petter
> 
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

