---
title: "Re: riak search and numeric fields"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-01-17T06:53:45-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg02011"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg02001"
author_name: "Rusty Klophaus"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-01-17T06:53:45-08:00
---


Also, there are bugs in Riak Search 0.13 where field level schema settings
are not respected during a query, so you have to manually pad the numbers at
query time.

This is fixed in the upcoming 0.14 release.

Best,
Rusty

On Sun, Jan 16, 2011 at 8:41 PM, Joseph Lambert
wrote:

> Make sure you check the padding of the number. I can no longer locate in
> the wiki where it said you need to pad integer types, but as far as I
> remember you need to pad the integer out to at least 10 digits. You should
> be able to set a custom padding size like so:
>
> {field, [ {name, "account"}, {type, integer}, {\*padding\*\_size, 20} ]}, but
> I could not make it work before with a padding size of less than 10. I may
> be wrong now with the new release, but give it a try.
>
> Instead of 5555, use 0000005555, and it should index properly.
>
> - Joe Lambert
>
> joseph.g.lamb...@gmail.com
> +86 13656213284
>
>
>
> On Mon, Jan 17, 2011 at 6:12 AM, Gary William Flake wrote:
>
>> Per the advice from my earlier question (about retrieving records in a
>> particular sort order), I've been playing with Riak Search in an attempt to
>> use a range query over a numeric field to get the sort order that I want (or
>> at least the right range).
>>
>> For the life of me, I can't get Riak Search to index on a numeric value,
>> even if it is a \*\_num field. I know that Lucene had some issues in the past
>> with having to get around the standard parsers stripping out numbers, but I
>> had assume that since Riak Search explicitly has a numeric type in its
>> schema, that this would be supported out of the box.
>>
>> Anyhow, I've tried every combination of setting up fields name as \*\_num,
>> with values as strings or as unquoted ints, with using different encoding,
>> etc. The net of it is that I can't query on anything numeric.
>>
>> What's the trick?
>>
>> Thanks,
>> -- GWF
>>
>>
>>
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>
>
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

