---
title: "Re: Solr Indexing and required fields."
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-05-22T07:01:00-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07500"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg07492"
author_name: "Eric Boyer"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-05-22T07:01:00-07:00
---


It's only really that a significant portion of our application is in
the RDBMS so we can't invest the time to re-write and migrate at this
time. New features and services that makes sense are being moved off
on a case by case basis.

Thanks for the info about the status of Riak Search.

Eric


On Mon, May 21, 2012 at 11:02 AM, Ryan Zezeski  wrote:
>
>
> On Wed, May 16, 2012 at 2:01 PM, Eric Boyer  wrote:
>>
>>
>> I can understand wanting to make Search more focused on indexing KV
>> data instead of a 'backdoor'. I was a little confused at first about
>> where the search data was being stored.
>
>
> The confusion is one of the reason I want to see non-KV indexing go away.
>
>>
>>
>> We currently don't store the actual data in Riak because after the
>> Riak Search we still have to check permissions and retrieve the data
>> from our Relational DB. We've put searching into Riak to better
>> distribute the load, and have a quicker update to the search indexes
>> instead of having to commit/optimize with Solr. It was very convenient
>> to just point to the Riak search/update endpoint and speak the same
>> protocol even if the semantics are slightly different.
>
>
> I'm glad Search is meeting your needs.  I'm curious what parts of RDBMS do
> you need that prevented you from using Riak to store the data itself?
>
> There has been some internal discussion about not deprecating/killing the
> solr emulation but instead moving it off into it's own layer/application
> that sits atop Riak.  I thought you should know.
>
> -Z

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

