---
title: "Test Environment"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-12-20T07:21:25-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg09648"
author_name: "Shane McEwan"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-12-20T07:21:25-08:00
---



G'day!

I'm currently trying to set up a test environment mimicking our 
production environment by copying the leveldb directory from each 
production node onto the corresponding test node. By carefully matching 
the node's partition ownerships to determine where I copy the data I can 
start up Riak on the test nodes and not have any partition handoffs and 
it seems like I have a working snapshot of my production data.


The questions I have are:

1: Is copying the leveldb directory from one cluster node to a node in a 
completely different cluster a sane thing to do? It seems to work. I 
don't get any errors in the Riak or LevelDB logs and my data is there 
when I query it.


2: Is there a simple way to determine which node owns which LevelDB 
partition? Currently I just guess. It looks like partitions are 
allocated to nodes alphabetically by node name. So I can copy the 
leveldb directory from production node "apple" to test node "pear", 
production "banana" to test "quince" and so on and it works. If I copy 
"apple" to "quince" and "banana" to "pear" then I see partition handoffs 
between "pear" and "quince" when I start Riak. It would be good to know, 
empirically, that partition "1234...789" on "apple" belongs on "pear" 
and not "quince".


3: Is there a better way to do this? "riak-admin reip" is deprecated. 
"riak-admin force-replace" doesn't work because the production node 
doesn't exist in the test cluster.


Thanks!

Shane.


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

