---
title: "Re: Erlang compilation error"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-02-24T07:29:55-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg02441"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg02430"
author_name: "Luke Bredeson"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-02-24T07:29:55-08:00
---


I used the Fedora Erlang packages. I'll try building Erlang from source and
see where that takes me. Thanks for the advice!

Luke

On Thu, Feb 24, 2011 at 7:37 AM, David Smith  wrote:

> This is almost certainly an artifact of the Erlang installation on
> Fedora -- did you install Erlang from source or use the package? I
> \_bet\_ you're missing the erl\_interface component of Erlang if you're
> using the Fedora available packages.
>
> We do have some fedora packages now for Riak, if you'd like to try that:
>
> http://downloads.basho.com/riak/riak-0.14/riak-0.14.1-1.fc13.i686.rpm
> http://downloads.basho.com/riak/riak-0.14/riak-0.14.1-1.fc13.x86\_64.rpm
>
> D.
>
> On Wed, Feb 23, 2011 at 9:46 PM, Luke Bredeson 
> wrote:
> > Hello,
> > I was hoping to give riak a try but ran into an odd Erlang issue. I was
> > following the "Fast Track", but got hung up when compiling riak.
> > I cloned riak from github, did "cd riak", then "make all". A few modules
> > appeared to compile correctly, but then I received the following error:
> > ERROR: compile failed while processing /home/luke/riak/deps/skerl:
> > {'EXIT',{function\_clause,[{lists,thing\_to\_list,[{error,bad\_name}]},
> > {lists,flatmap,2},
> > {lists,flatmap,2},
> > {rebar\_port\_compiler,default\_env,0},
> > {rebar\_port\_compiler,compile,2},
> > {rebar\_core,run\_modules,4},
> > {rebar\_core,execute,4},
> > {rebar\_core,process\_dir,4}]}}
> > make: \*\*\* [compile] Error 1
> > I'm running Erlang R14B. I know I'm supposed to have R13B04 or later,
> but
> > maybe R14B is too new? Also, I'm on Fedora 14, if that's relevant. Any
> > ideas would be appreciated, as I'm really hoping to getting into trying
> out
> > riak.
> > Thanks,
> > Luke
> > \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> > riak-users mailing list
> > riak-users@lists.basho.com
> > http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> >
> >
>
>
>
> --
> Dave Smith
> Engineering Manager
> Basho Technologies, Inc.
> diz...@basho.com
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

