---
title: "Riak 1.0, Clojure and the Java Client"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-10-07T14:45:30-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05100"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg05098"
author_name: "Tim Robinson"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-10-07T14:45:30-07:00
---



Hello,

I have been slowly learning & evaluating Riak for a product I am
developing. Originally I gave Riak a whirl about 6 months back, but
stopped due to some missing features. With the recent release of 1.0
I've decided to give it another chance.

So here are a few kick off questions I hope you can help answer to
get me started again:

1.  Since I am back to square one, I am looking at the clients
again.... Currently my programming language of choice is Clojure, and
initially I had been playing around with the Clj-Riak library
(https://github.com/mmcgrana/clj-riak) which I had believed was a thin
wrapper around the standard Java protocol buffer client maintained by
Basho, however in looking at the source I notice clj-riak actually
uses an alternative client, linked here: 
https://github.com/krestenkrab/riak-java-pb-client, written by some
fellow at trifork (isn't trifork Basho's primary investor?). Anyways
it looks as though this Kresten fellow has been able to improve the
java client's performance by a factor of 10. Has anyone upgraded this
alternate version, or have an opinion to its alignment with Riak 1.0?

Note: I'm sure I can use the new java client, but a 10x speed up
sounds pretty appealing and I'm wondering why it's not already a topic
here.

2. Are there any known plans for a Riak cloud service? I know about
Joyent, but frankly I don't like their business model and can't see
using them. Just curious if there's anything in the works. 

Note: as a preemptive answe: I'm looking for a service which is 1.
more reasonably priced, 2. has an initial free tier and 3. automates
the upgrades and the linking/start-up process... so really, I'm
looking for the MongoHQ of Riak (https://mongohq.com/pricing).

Thanks,
Tim Robinson  


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

