---
title: "Re: The Right erlang client?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-01-28T09:20:19-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06450"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06447"
author_name: "Sean Cribbs"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-01-28T09:20:19-08:00
---


Jeremey,

Alin is correct, the PB client is canonical (but there's also
https://github.com/basho/riak-erlang-http-client ). Were you specifically
having trouble with the internal representation (riak\_object) leaking into
the client via MapReduce? It should be straightforward to address that
issue.

On Fri, Jan 27, 2012 at 6:08 PM, Alin Popa  wrote:

> Hi Jeremey,
>
> Sorry, I'm not one of the 'Basho folks', like you named them :), but I
> would say that Erlang client (riak\_object) is the one used only for
> internal purposes, as opposed to Erlang Pb Client, which is the one that
> should you use when you're building your erlang applications.
>
> Nevertheless, as 'basho falks' suggests it: "The local Erlang client is a
> tightly-integrated part of Riak and the Riak HTTP and Protocol Buffers
> interfaces use the Erlang client internally. The primary client for code
> that is not inside of Riak is the Protocol Buffers client:
>
> - riak-erlang-client on GitHub
> "
>
> HTH,
> Alin
>
> On Sat, Jan 28, 2012 at 12:18 AM, Jeremey Barrett  > wrote:
>
>> All, and especially Basho folks, what is the Right client to use from
>> Erlang? I've been using the PB client, but dealing with the strange
>> difference between riakc\_obj and riak\_object is making me question that
>> choice. Is there a better answer?
>>
>> If not, is there a recommended practice for dealing with the results of
>> map\_identity in clients using PB?
>>
>> It seems like the distributed erlang client isn't really intended to be
>> used as a "client library," given that it's buried inside riak\_kv.
>>
>> Any advice would be welcome, I don't really see a lot of documentation on
>> best practices.
>>
>> Regards,
>> Jeremey.
>>
>>
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>
>
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>


-- 
Sean Cribbs 
Software Engineer
Basho Technologies, Inc.
http://basho.com/
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

