---
title: "Re: Hey, Python client users"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-10-17T12:13:19-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05181"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg05176"
author_name: "Russell Brown"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-10-17T12:13:19-07:00
---



On 16 Oct 2011, at 06:18, Greg Stein wrote:

> Hey all,
> 
> The Basho folks have been slow to integrate changes, given their busy
> schedule with the 1.0 release.

This is true. Sorry. But we are now putting some time into the client libraries 
in general and the python client in particular.

> I've had a couple branches hanging out
> for a while to deal with HTTP problems and to deal with Issue #53.
> They've been separate for better review/merging by Basho, but it
> finally created too many problems for my own work to keep them
> separate. I've just now merged them into a single branch so that I can
> get my own work done.

Yeah, I started merging your P/Rs in a while back, but then the last 2 conflict 
with a couple of P/Rs from Brett Hoerner. I guess at the point we stalled as 
there is some decision to be made about the best way to handle pooling.
I'm reading over both Brett and your changes today.

There is quite some work to merge the commits you've been doing into the 
official repo, but I'd like to get that done rather than have a competing fork.

> 
> This doesn't have timeout capabilities (Brett has this on a branch,
> but without future direction from Basho and how that timeout work
> interacts with future http work, it is unclear on where to go with
> developing timeouts). But if you can deal without timeouts right now,
> then I would state this branch is the best option for Python access to
> Riak. Since this is also divorced from my pull requests for issue 53
> and fixing http, I might go ahead and add timeouts soon. Even if the
> timeout work isn't Right, it would still be useful.
> 
> Anyhow, enough description. If you're using Python, then I'd highly recommend:
> https://github.com/gstein/riak-python-client/tree/proper
> 
> I hope that helps, and let me know if you run into any problems with it.

Would you recommend taking this fork and merging it with the 
basho/riak-python-client?

Cheers

Russell

> 
> Cheers,
> -g
> 
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

