---
title: "Re: Searching and sorting with mapreduce or solr?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-05-02T17:30:20-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03188"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg03187"
author_name: "Odelon Miranda"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-05-02T17:30:20-07:00
---


Hi Alexander,

Thanks for you reply.

What would you suggest on using, the solr interface or the map-reduce?

What would be best to use when you are processing lets say 1 million
documents?

Thanks,

Odie

On Tue, May 3, 2011 at 7:13 AM,  wrote:

> Riak m/r is a scan operation. Solr is an indexed operation. By definition
> an indexed operation will be faster than a scan operation. Just something to
> keep in mind.
>
> You also mention "search by field" but Riak is opaque to values so I will
> just assume your values are json (not to say that you can't operate on non
> json data).
> Basically you are going to run a map function that has your filter in it.
> And then pass those results to a reduce function that implements a sort.
>
> Your actual implementation will take advantage of features made available
> by the client you use. I mainly use the nodejs javascript client, riakjs,
> which has very good support for building m/r queries.
>
> I have two articles on my blog which may help you out.
> http://siculars.posterous.com/tag/riak
>
> Cheers,
> Alexander
>
> Sent from my Verizon Wireless BlackBerry
>
> -----Original Message-----
> From: Odelon Miranda 
> Sender: riak-users-boun...@lists.basho.com
> Date: Tue, 3 May 2011 06:41:40
> To: 
> Subject: Searching and sorting with mapreduce or solr?
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>


-- 
We stretch out both of our arms...
Pass through the clouds, straight to the sky...
Even though we touched the Moon and the Mars...
We still cannot touch the TRUTH.
--- from the manga BLEACH
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

