---
title: "Re: Possibility of a CAS API"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-02-24T17:36:53-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06737"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06733"
author_name: "Ian Plosker"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-02-24T17:36:53-08:00
---


Armon, 

The feature you are describing is very similar to the conditional header, 
`If-Unmodified-Since`, provided by the client APIs 
(http://wiki.basho.com/HTTP-Store-Object.html & 
http://wiki.basho.com/PBC-Store-Object.html).

Is this similar to what you're describing or am I missing something? 

-- 
Ian Plosker 
Developer Advocate
Basho Technologies


On Saturday, February 25, 2012 at 9:41 AM, Armon Dadgar wrote:

> As part of a new feature we are working on, we've run into
> a situation where it would be incredibly convenient to have a 
> check-and-set (CAS) API for Riak KV. In short, we are trying to build
> a unique index of a bucket, using a second bucket which acts as a 
> reverse index.
> 
> The CAS API would operate in the same manner as a PUT, except it
> should take a "last vclock". The new value + last vclock are submitted
> to the responsible vnodes. The vnodes respond if the last vclock
> for the key matches the specified last value. If we get "r" nodes responding
> that the last value matches, then we should commit the write. This method
> is basically a two-phase commit.
> 
> It would also be great if no-value sentinel could be specified to indicate
> the CAS should only succeed if there is not already a key. We need this
> to make sure uniqueness constraints are not violated.
> 
> I wanted to gauge the interest from the community in something like this,
> and see if I could get thoughts from the Basho team on if this could be
> implemented.
> 
> Best Regards,
> 
> Armon Dadgar
> 
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> 
> 


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

