---
title: "Re: bitcask 42?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-10-04T16:14:17-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01190"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg01175"
author_name: "Alexander Sicular"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-10-04T16:14:17-07:00
---


If you have a server that has raided disk and you don't have a battery
backed raid controller you fail at buying servers as it's virtually
the only piece of hardware that makes a server a server.

On 2010-10-04, Nico Meyer  wrote:
> One should also mention, that the overall performance of bitcask might
> presumably become worse with a larger number of partitions per node.
> If there is only one partition writing is basically linear on the disk,
> an therefore extremely fast. If you on the other hand linearly write to
> a large number of files at the same time, the disk access pattern starts
> to look more random.
> It all very much depends on how you IO subsystem can handle appending to
> many files in parallel. For example a RAID controller with a large
> battery backed cache should help a lot.
>
> Cheers,
> Nico
>
> Am Freitag, den 01.10.2010, 14:56 -0700 schrieb Dan Reverri:
>> The value of ring\_creation\_size dictates how many partitions your Riak
>> cluster will manage. These partitions are distributed amongst the
>> nodes of your cluster. Each node in the cluster with manage a portion
>> of the ring ( ring\_creation\_size / number of nodes ). A larger ring
>> means each node will be responsible for more partitions which means
>> each node will open more files (ulimit -n).
>>
>>
>> Thanks,
>> Dan
>>
>> Daniel Reverri
>> Developer Advocate
>> Basho Technologies, Inc.
>> d...@basho.com
>>
>>
>> On Fri, Oct 1, 2010 at 12:51 PM, Mojito Sorbet 
>> wrote:
>> On Fri, 2010-10-01 at 09:24 -0700, Dan Reverri wrote:
>>
>> > Projects will typically define an upper bound for a
>> cluster's size
>> > based on available datacenter space, available power, cost,
>> etc.
>> > Choosing a ring\_creation\_size value based on this upper
>> bound will
>> > allow you to start small and grow into your cluster.
>>
>>
>> Ok, but these days there is no fixed size "data center". If I
>> need more
>> resources I can add them dynamically from Amazon or an
>> equivalent cloud
>> provider. If I accidentally create the next Facebook and it
>> keeps
>> growing, it would be nice not to have to backup and restore
>> the whole
>> thing as it grows into multiple hundreds of terrabytes,
>> especially
>> considering the downtime required.
>>
>> What is the penalty for making the ring size a lot bigger than
>> the
>> initial number of nodes would require?
>>
>>
>>
>>
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>
>>
>>
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>

-- 
Sent from my mobile device

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

