---
title: "Re: Core Claim and Property-Based Tests"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2017-05-16T12:20:26-0700
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg18210"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg18209"
author_name: "Tom Santero"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2017-05-16T12:20:26-0700
---


I'd love to see riak\_core on partisan. I'm eyeing using it in an upcoming
internal project. 

On Tue, May 16, 2017 at 3:06 PM, Christopher Meiklejohn <
christopher.meiklej...@gmail.com> wrote:

> For what it's worth, the Lasp community is looking at doing a fork of
> Riak Core replacing all communication with our Partisan library and
> moving it completely off of distributed Erlang. We'd love to hear
> from more folks that are interested in this work.
>
> - Christopher
>
> On Tue, May 16, 2017 at 6:53 PM, Tom Santero  wrote:
> > I'm aware of a few other companies and individuals who are interested in
> > continued development and support in a post-Basho world. Ideally the
> > community can come together and contribute to a single, canonical fork.
> >
> > Semi-related, there's a good chance this mailing list won't last much
> > longer, either. I'm happy to personally contribute time and resources to
> > help maintain the community.
> >
> > Tom
> >
> > On Tue, May 16, 2017 at 11:51 AM, Martin Sumner
> >  wrote:
> >>
> >>
> >> I've raised an issue with Core today
> >> (https://github.com/basho/riak\_core/issues/908), related to the claim
> >> algorithms.
> >>
> >> There's a long-read associated with this, which provides a broader
> >> analysis of how claim works with the ring:
> >>
> >>
> >> https://github.com/martinsumner/riak\_core/blob/
> mas-claimv2issues/docs/ring\_claim.md
> >>
> >> I believe the long-read explains some of the common mysterious issues
> >> which can occur with claim.
> >>
> >> We're in the process of fixing up the property-based tests for
> >> riak\_core\_claim.erl, and will then be looking to make some improvements
> to
> >> claim v2 to try and pass the improved tests.
> >>
> >> Big question is though, how can we progress any contribution we make
> into
> >> the Riak codebase? What is the plan going forward for open-source
> >> contributions to Riak? Do Basho have any contingency plans for smoothly
> >> handing over open-source code to the community, before the list of
> Basho's
> >> Github people (https://github.com/orgs/basho/people) who still work at
> Basho
> >> is reduced to zero?
> >>
> >> Is this something of concern to others?
> >>
> >> Regards
> >>
> >> Martin
> >>
> >>
> >> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> >> riak-users mailing list
> >> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> >> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> >>
> >
> >
> > \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> > riak-users mailing list
> > riak-users@lists.basho.com
> > http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> >
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

