---
title: "RE: Need help with Riak-KV (2.1.4) certificate based authentication	using Java client"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2016-08-30T12:03:18-0700
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg17605"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg17603"
author_name: "Nguyen, Kyle"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2016-08-30T12:03:18-0700
---


Hi Luke,

I believe this is not the case. The Java riak-client (version 2.0.6) that I 
used does validate the server's cert but not checking on server's CN. If I 
replaced getACert CA in the trustor with another unknown CA then SSL will fail 
with "unable to find valid certification path to requested target". I don't 
even see an option to ignore server cert validation on the client side. I am 
wondering if you can help provide some details related to SSL certification 
validation configuration.

My riak node builder code:
RiakNode.Builder builder = new 
RiakNode.Builder().withRemoteAddress("127.0.0.1").withRemotePort(8087);
 builder.withAuth(username, password, trustStore, keyStore, 
keyPasswd);

Thanks

-Kyle-


-----Original Message-----
From: Luke Bakken [mailto:lbak...@basho.com]
Sent: Tuesday, August 30, 2016 7:14 AM
To: Nguyen, Kyle
Cc: Riak Users
Subject: Re: Need help with Riak-KV (2.1.4) certificate based authentication 
using Java client

Kyle -

The CN should be either the DNS-resolvable host name of the Riak node, or its 
IP address (without "riak@"). Then, the Java client should be configured to use 
that to connect to the node (either DNS or IP).
Without doing that, I really don't have any idea how the Java client is 
validating the server certificate during TLS handshake. Did you configure the 
client to \*not\* validate the server cert?

--
Luke Bakken
Engineer
lbak...@basho.com


On Mon, Aug 29, 2016 at 3:18 PM, Nguyen, Kyle  wrote:
> Hi Luke,
>
> The CN for client's certificate is "kyle" and the CN for riak cert 
> (ssl.certfile) is "riak@127.0.0.1" which matches the nodename in the 
> riak.conf. Riak ssl.cacertfile.pem contains the same CA (getACert) which I 
> used to sign both client and riak public keys. It appears that riak also 
> validated the client certificate following this SSL debug info. I do see \*\*\* 
> CertificateVerify (toward the end) after the client certificate is requested 
> by Riak. Please let me know if it looks right to you.

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
The information contained in this message may be confidential and legally 
protected under applicable law. The message is intended solely for the 
addressee(s). If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby notified 
that any use, forwarding, dissemination, or reproduction of this message is 
strictly prohibited and may be unlawful. If you are not the intended recipient, 
please contact the sender by return e-mail and destroy all copies of the 
original message.
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

