---
title: "Re: Riak CS/Stanchion troubleshooting (Retrieval of user record)"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-11-15T18:03:13-0800
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16770"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16767"
author_name: "Kazuhiro Suzuki"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-11-15T18:03:13-0800
---


Hi,

ha\_proxy's timeout settings often causes disconnected errors on a Riak
CS deployment by high work load. termination\_stat [1] in tcplog [2]
lets you know if timeout happens or not.

> 2015-11-13 13:13:09.514 [error] 
> <0.11264.1387>@riak\_cs\_wm\_common:maybe\_create\_user:222 Retrieval of user 
> record for s3 failed. Reason: disconnected

This means Riak CS failed to read a user data from Riak for
authentication due to a disconnected error.

> Riak CS adds, removes, gets properties through Stanchion service. Am I right? 
> I can't exactly understand where is my bottleneck - Riak, Riak CS or 
> Stanchion.

Mainly Stanchion is only used to update/delete data of users and
buckets. To inspect a node, Riak S2/CS 2.1 introduced new metrics
including various latencies and counters, which help to identify
bottleneck.

> When we need authenticated access for reading object from bucket do we need 
> Stanchion? If not I can't understand why I had a lot of error during getting 
> objects from Riak CS.

Authenticated access is always necessary but a read request of user
data for auth is issued from Riak CS to Riak directly, not through
Stanchion.

> P. S. Sometimes when there is some issues with Riak CS - Stanchion 
> connectivity I need to restart Riak CS.

Riak CS 1.5.0 has connection pool leak problem [3]. You might hit the issue...

[1]: https://cbonte.github.io/haproxy-dconv/configuration-1.5.html#8.5
[2]: https://cbonte.github.io/haproxy-dconv/configuration-1.5.html#8.2.2
[3]: 
http://docs.basho.com/riakcs/latest/cookbooks/Riak-CS-Release-Notes/#Riak-CS-1-5-2

On Sat, Nov 14, 2015 at 2:04 AM, Vladyslav Zakhozhai
 wrote:
>
> Hello.
>
> I have Riak CS cluster with 18 nodes. On each node there is Riak CS and Riak
> service and one Stanchion node.
>
> Versions:
> Riak 1.4.12
> Riak CS 1.5.0
> Stanchion 1.5.0
>
> Riak CS and Riak allocated behind HAProxy balancers:
>
> WAN -> HAProxy -> Riak CS nodes -> HAProxy -> Riak nodes.
> ans
> Stanchion -> HAProxy -> Riak
>
> Today due a spike of traffic load (about 1000 rps) on the cluster 50% of
> Riak CS returned HTTP 500 and 503 (querying /riak-cs/ping resource also was
> not successful).
>
> In Riak CS logs I've seen the following messages:
>
> 2015-11-13 13:13:09.514 [error]
> <0.11264.1387>@riak\_cs\_wm\_common:maybe\_create\_user:222 Retrieval of user
> record for s3 failed. Reason: disconnected
>
> In Riak CS logs I see the following:
> 2015-11-13 17:31:52.995 [error] <0.11254.6534> Lager event handler
> error\_logger\_lager\_h exited with reason
> {'EXIT',{{badmatch,["/buckets/uaprom-image/objects/272547384\_cid1322007\_pid183135512-26a7c1f3.jpg",{error,{error,{badmatch,{error,closed}},[{webmachine\_request,recv\_unchunked\_body,3,[{file,"src/webmachine\_request.erl"},{line,471}]},{webmachine\_request,call,2,[{file,"src/webmachine\_request.erl"},{line,193}]},{wrq,stream\_req\_body,2,[{file,"src/wrq.erl"},{line,121}]},{riak\_cs\_wm\_object,handle\_normal\_put,2,[{file,"src/riak\_cs\_wm\_object.erl"},{line,341}]},{riak\_cs\_wm\_common,accept\_body,2,[{file,...},...]},...]}},...]},...}}
>
> I suspect that there were problem between Riak CS - Stanhion or Stanhion -
> Riak. I have no clear idea in Stanchion troubleshooting. The main reason is
> the following. Stanhion works fine, service is up (answers on ping command).
> But it is very laconic: there is almost nothing in console and error logs
> (even with debug log level).
>
> Riak CS adds, removes, gets properties through Stanchion service. Am I
> right? I can't exactly understand where is my bottleneck - Riak, Riak CS or
> Stanhion.
>
> When we need authenticated access for reading object from bucket do we need
> Stanchion? If not I can't understand why I had a lot of error during getting
> objects from Riak CS.
>
> Thank you in advance.
>
> P. S. Sometimes when there is some issues with Riak CS - Stanchion
> connectivity I need to restart Riak CS.
>
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>



-- 
Kazuhiro Suzuki | Basho Japan KK

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

