---
title: "Re: Object metadata via NodeJS client"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-04-17T03:56:57-0700
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16023"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15996"
author_name: "Jose G. Quenum"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-04-17T03:56:57-0700
---


Hi Luke,
It looks like my previous email didn't get through. I have a few questions 
regarding the riak client. 
1 - when I have several indices to add to an object can I just chain them to 
the riakObject, ie, call successive addIndex methods to a riakObject?
2 - when I am doing a map-reduce,
 a - can I use key filters? What's the syntax?
 b - how can I use map reduce to walk links? In riak-js I used to specify 
the links in the inputs. What is the syntax with this client?

Thanks in advance
Jose

Sent from my iPad

> On Apr 8, 2015, at 9:20 PM, Luke Bakken  wrote:
> 
> José,
> 
> Check out the following methods in the document:
> 
> http://basho.github.io/riak-nodejs-client/classes/RiakObject.html
> 
> hasLinks()
> getLinks()
> setLinks()
> 
> --
> Luke Bakken
> Engineer
> lbak...@basho.com
> 
> 
> On Wed, Apr 8, 2015 at 8:56 AM, Jose G. Quenum
>  wrote:
>> Thanks a bunch Luke. It's now getting clear. However the links manipulation 
>> is not available yet on the API docs. I guess it's just a matter of update.
>> I will now start re implementing my riak data access with this client. When 
>> I get questions I will turn to you guys.
>> Regards
>> Jose
>> 
>> Sent from my iPad
>> 
>>> On Apr 7, 2015, at 6:50 PM, Luke Bakken  wrote:
>>> 
>>> Hi José,
>>> 
>>> Please refer to this document:
>>> 
>>> http://basho.github.io/riak-nodejs-client/classes/RiakObject.html
>>> 
>>> When you retrieve a value, you get a RiakObject back:
>>> 
>>> client.fetchValue({ bucket: 'test', key: 'foo' }, function (err, rslt) {
>>> var riakObj = rslt.values.shift();
>>> });
>>> 
>>> This RiakObject exposes several methods related to metadata.
>>> 
>>> I just released version 1.1.0 which adds support for links. You'll see
>>> that in the API docs now.
>>> 
>>> --
>>> Luke Bakken
>>> Engineer
>>> lbak...@basho.com
>>> 
>>> 
>>> On Tue, Apr 7, 2015 at 5:27 AM, José Ghislain Quenum
>>>  wrote:
>>>> Luke,
>>>> In my current implementation, I use metadata for both links and secondary
>>>> index.
>>>> 
>>>>> On Mon, Apr 6, 2015 at 4:03 PM, Luke Bakken  wrote:
>>>>> 
>>>>> Hi José,
>>>>> 
>>>>> Other than links, what object metadata are you trying to access or modify?
>>>>> 
>>>>> Thanks -
>>>>> 
>>>>> --
>>>>> Luke Bakken
>>>>> Engineer
>>>>> lbak...@basho.com
>>>>> 
>>>>> 
>>>>> On Sat, Apr 4, 2015 at 6:56 AM, José Ghislain Quenum
>>>>>  wrote:
>>>>>> Thanks Brian for your reply and trying to work out the links part. I
>>>>>> took a look at the RiakObject and could see how to manipulate it with
>>>>>> FetchValue and the Secondary Index. However, I failed to figure out
>>>>>> how to access the meta while reading an object. Just as an example,
>>>>>> when you're updating an object you could be using some meta data, and
>>>>>> some of them come from a prior read.
>>>>>> 
>>>>>> If you could just share some examples with code that'd be very helpful.
>>>>>> 
>>>>>> Thanks José
>>>> 
>>>> 

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

