---
title: "Re: Deleting data from bitcask backend"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-09-24T14:12:28-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12366"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12276"
author_name: "Brian Sparrow"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-09-24T14:12:28-07:00
---


Hello Charl, 

Everything looks as expected in the vnode status and the logs. Feel free to run 
`bitcask:merge("/PATH/TO/PARTITION")` for other partitions on the node(s) to 
reclaim space.

Let us know how things go.

Thanks, 

-- 
Brian Sparrow
Developer Advocate
Basho Technologies

Sent with Sparrow (http://www.sparrowmailapp.com/?sig)


On Monday, September 16, 2013 at 4:34 PM, Charl Matthee wrote:

> Hi,
> 
> On 16 September 2013 21:15, Alex Moore  (mailto:amo...@basho.com)> wrote:
> 
> > I would recommend running "riak-admin vnode-status" during an off-peak time
> > like Evan mentioned, that way we can see what your dead bytes/fragmentation
> > levels look like. This will also let us know if you are hitting the
> > triggers or if they need to be adjusted more.
> > 
> 
> 
> I've attached the output from "riak-admin vnode-status".
> 
> > One thing I did notice is that your dead\_bytes\_merge\_trigger and
> > dead\_bytes\_threshold are both set to 64MB.
> > This will means that a merge will be triggered when a bitcask file has more
> > than 64MB of dead objects in it (dead\_bytes\_merge\_trigger), and only files
> > with more than 64 MB of dead objects will be merged (dead\_bytes\_threshold).
> > If you want more than that single file to be merged, you can reduce
> > dead\_bytes\_threshold further so it can include files that are nearing the
> > limit.
> > 
> 
> 
> Great, thanks for that. I'll update my nodes tomorrow and monitor the
> effects during the day.
> 
> -- 
> Ciao
> 
> Charl
> 
> "I will either find a way, or make one." -- Hannibal
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> 
> 
> 
> 
> Attachments: 
> - riak-vnode-status
> 


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

