---
title: "Re: Riak for user information?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-01-07T07:07:33-0800
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15449"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15447"
author_name: "Sean Cribbs"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-01-07T07:07:33-0800
---


I disagree with whoever said that. User information (like a profile or
account) is some of the easiest to implement with eventual consistency,
namely because it would be rare to be in conflict (only a single actor
updating), and conflict resolution can be performed trivially without
intervention or presented to the user in straightforward ways.

If you're concerned about ensuring uniqueness of user identifiers, you can
go with any one of a number of workarounds like UUIDs, "Snowflake" IDs, and
cryptographic hashes/tokens, or go the slow route and ensure it via strong
consistency.

The benefits of using Riak for this sort of data are the typical ones: high
reliability and durability, global availability (if using Riak Enterprise),
and simplified operations. Basically, barring problems in other components,
your users will almost always be able to view and edit their profiles.

On Wed, Jan 7, 2015 at 7:49 AM, xu xiut  wrote:

> I've heard several times now that key/value stores aren't ideal for
> storing user information. Why is this true?
>
> Does this apply to Riak even with strong consistency in 2.0?
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>


-- 
Sean Cribbs 
Sr. Software Engineer
Basho Technologies, Inc.
http://basho.com/
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

