---
title: "Re: Brokenness specific to nginx and jets3t with Riak CS"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-09-24T23:26:27-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14918"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14917"
author_name: "Toby Corkindale"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-09-24T23:26:27-07:00
---


Quite update to mention that by removing some extra (unneeded) custom
headers from the proxy configuration and fiddling with some other
nginx options, I'm at a point where Riak CS throws an actual error
back rather than disconnecting prematurely.
The error now returned is below. I'm wondering if something else nginx
is doing is causing the request to get mangled enough that it doesn't
work.. but hard to tell what, or why :/

ResponseCode: 403, ResponseStatus: Forbidden, XML Error Message: xml
version=\"1.0\"
encoding=\"UTF-8\"?`AccessDenied`Access
Denied/upload-service/da417126-8651-4be5-b552-6d125bb7b27c/coreos\_production\_ami\_hvm.txt


On 25 September 2014 15:59, Toby Corkindale  wrote:
> Hi,
> I've hit an issue that only seems to occur when using the Jets3t
> client library and Nginx as a load balancer in front of Riak CS.
> The issue is NOT present when using other S3 libraries, nor is it
> present if I switch out Nginx for haproxy.
>
> Unfortunately, in this instance it is desirable to use both, unless it
> turns out to be \*really\* troublesome.
> I wondered if anyone here can offer advice?
>
> The problem is that reads and writes to objects results in Riak CS,
> apparently, disconnecting the client prematurely.
> Nginx reports "connection reset by peer" and retries upstream Riak CS
> servers several times before giving up.
> The Riak CS access logs indicate what look like valid URLs, with a 403
> status indicated.
>
>
> Accessing the same buckets with the same auth and transferring the
> same files is fine when done with s3cmd, and we have other apps that
> have been running through nginx for a while using other S3 client
> libraries.
>
> A simple "check if bucket exists" command through jets3t seems to work OK.
>
> Any thoughts on what could be going on, or is this all just a bit too vague?
>
> Toby



-- 
Turning and turning in the widening gyre
The falcon cannot hear the falconer
Things fall apart; the center cannot hold
Mere anarchy is loosed upon the world

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

