---
title: "Re: How to access riak control panel?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-02-12T17:39:54-0800
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15705"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15698"
author_name: "Christopher Meiklejohn"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-02-12T17:39:54-0800
---


Hi there,

Can you do the following and let me know what happens?

$ git clone g...@github.com:basho/riak.git
$ cd riak
$ make stage
$ vi rel/riak/etc/riak.conf 

\* Change \*only\* riak\_control.enabled = on

$ rel/riak/bin/riak start
$ curl http://127.0.0.1:8098/admin

Does this work?

- Chris

> On Feb 12, 2015, at 7:40 PM, SeanProtain  wrote:
> 
> Please see the attached screenshot.
> 
> 
> From: barco...@hotmail.com
> To: cmeiklej...@basho.com
> Subject: RE: How to access riak control panel?
> Date: Fri, 13 Feb 2015 08:27:33 +0800
> CC: riak-users@lists.basho.com
> 
> If I attempt load this address in browser, it always goto 
> https://localhost/admin and nothing to be returned.
> 
> Sean
> 
> From: barco...@hotmail.com
> To: cmeiklej...@basho.com
> Subject: RE: How to access riak control panel?
> Date: Fri, 13 Feb 2015 08:22:34 +0800
> CC: riak-users@lists.basho.com
> 
> Can not load anything from the browser.
> 
> Sean
> 
> Subject: Re: How to access riak control panel?
> From: cmeiklej...@basho.com
> Date: Thu, 12 Feb 2015 13:17:16 -0500
> CC: riak-users@lists.basho.com
> To: barco...@hotmail.com
> 
> Hi there,
> 
> Can you attempt to load that address in your browser?
> 
> Thanks,
> Chris
> 
> On Feb 12, 2015, at 9:37 AM, SeanProtain  wrote:
> 
> Hi Christopher,
> 
> After do it again with your command, I still can not connect to the admin 
> panel of riak control.
> please see the attached screeshot. Should I visit the admin panel by type 
> http://localhost:10018/admin on the browser? Thank you!
> 
> From: barco...@hotmail.com
> To: cmeiklej...@basho.com
> CC: riak-users@lists.basho.com
> Subject: RE: How to access riak control panel?
> Date: Thu, 12 Feb 2015 22:31:57 +0800
> 
> Hi Christopher,
> 
> After do it again with your command, I still can not connect to the admin 
> panel of riak control.
> please see the attached screeshot. Thank you!
> 
> > Subject: Re: How to access riak control panel?
> > From: cmeiklej...@basho.com
> > Date: Tue, 10 Feb 2015 21:11:09 -0500
> > CC: riak-users@lists.basho.com
> > To: barco...@hotmail.com
> > 
> > 
> > > On Feb 10, 2015, at 9:08 PM, SeanProtain  wrote:
> > > 
> > > Hi Christopher,
> > > 
> > > Thank you!
> > > 
> > > Then how should I pull the right code for tag riak-2.0.4? Could you 
> > > please show me the concrete command? Thank you!
> > 
> > From a clean clone, just run the following:
> > 
> > $ git checkout riak-2.0.4
> > $ make devrel
> > 
> > - Chris
> > 
> > Christopher Meiklejohn
> > Senior Software Engineer
> > Basho Technologies, Inc.
> > cmeiklej...@basho.com
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> 
> Christopher Meiklejohn
> Senior Software Engineer
> Basho Technologies, Inc.
> cmeiklej...@basho.com
> 
> 
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ riak-users mailing list 
> riak-users@lists.basho.com 
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> 
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ riak-users mailing list 
> riak-users@lists.basho.comhttp://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> 


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

