---
title: "Re: ANN: Riak C Client *alpha*"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-11-01T15:26:46-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12828"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12815"
author_name: "Brett Hazen"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-11-01T15:26:46-07:00
---


Thanks, Rob. I'm taking a look right now at hiredis. Love the async 
abstraction. Cleans a few things up. I'll look at tweaking our design 
accordingly.


With solidarity in C,
Brett

On 10/31/13 11:54 AM, Robert Zuber wrote:

hiredis has a model for pluggable event loops in a C client lib that may be 
worth having a look at. i've integrated it into a C server that was already 
using a libevent loop and it worked very well.

https://github.com/redis/hiredis

but more importantly thanks for all the effort on a C lib! sometimes it feels 
like those of us who still use C are forgotten :)

cheers,
rob.


On Oct 31, 2013, at 8:05 AM, Brett Hazen  wrote:


It's a great idea, Brian. I'll take a look at making the event framework 
pluggable.

Right now the async stuff is wrapped by the synchronous interface. You are 
thinking a separate implementation would be more efficient?

Brett

Sent from my iPhone

On Oct 31, 2013, at 4:35, Brian Akins  wrote:


There is no event loop in libcurl. That was my point. It can use several different event loops - 
libev, libevent , etc. If "libriakclient" uses libevent only, then I have a tougher time 
integrating it with other event loops. Haven't looked into the code much, but the "core" 
riak-client stuff (PBC, etc) could/should be separate from the asynchronous implementation - even 
if a libevent implementation was included.


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com



\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

