---
title: "Re: map-db"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-01-21T05:09:01-0800
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15552"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15547"
author_name: "Ildar Alishev"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-01-21T05:09:01-0800
---


Hello Christopher,

i have asked question to Muchdifferent, and they says that they don’t support 
2.0.x version of Riak, soooooo it means that i should downgrade my version to 
1.4.2 how i can do it????


Thank you!
> 21 янв. 2015 г., в 14:46, Christopher Meiklejohn 
>  написал(а):
> 
>> 
>> On Jan 21, 2015, at 12:41 PM, Ildar Alishev  wrote:
>> 
>> Hi Christopher,
>> 
>> thank you for your answer.
>> Honestly we work with ugameDb and order is next
>> 
>> we start executing code (using C# in Unity3d), it goes to ugame db, than 
>> after ugamedb it goes to Riak(i think ugameDB use RIAK), and after this it 
>> sends us answer.
>> 
>> What code should i send you??? 
>> it is first time we are working with ugamedb and riak at all, so we are some 
>> sort of noobs)
>> 
>> 
>> here is some code that i’m using in Unity3d (C#)
>> 
>> public IEnumerator eMapQuery()
>> {
>> var map = buck.MapReduce(new ErlangMapPhase("unity", "map\_phase"), 
>> new ErlangReducePhase("unity", "reduce\_phase"));
>> Debug.Log("Start");
>> yield return map.WaitUntilDone();
>> if(map.isSuccessful)
>> foreach (var item in map.GetResult())
>> {
>> Debug.Log("Ok");
>> foreach (var pair in item.Fields) Debug.Log(pair.Key + " = " + 
>> pair.Value.ToString());
>> }
>> else
>> {
>> Debug.Log("Fail");
>> }
>> }
> 
> Hi Ildar,
> 
> Can you provide me a little more information?
> 
> 1.) Which Riak client are you using to connect from C#?
> 2.) Can you show me the code where “buck” is defined?
> 3.) Can you show me the code where the connection to Riak is initialized?
> 
> Thanks!
> - Chris

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

