---
title: "Riak 2.0 Yokozuna performance"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-03-19T01:17:19-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13842"
author_name: "Andrey Anpilogov"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-03-19T01:17:19-07:00
---


Hi,

I've been playing with Riak 2.0 and found some strange performance drop
with new Search system.
Run two Riak nodes on E3 machines with 32GB RAM and SSD drives.
1) Use leveldb as backend.
2) Enabled Search engine
3) Join them into cluster.
4) Created "users\_t" index with default schema.
5) Associate that index with "users\_t" bucket type.
6) Run simple node.js app that put json object into bucket:
{ name\_s: 'Cara Pagac',
 username\_s: 'Ines.Crooks',
 email\_s: 'emiliano.powlow...@garret.co.uk',
 address:
 { street\_s: 'Hermann Row',
 suite\_s: 'Suite 320',
 city\_s: 'Lake Oscarstad',
 zipcode\_i: '68010-5144',
 state\_s: 'Delaware',
 geo: { lat\_i: '-12.3129', lng\_i: '-163.9018' } },
 phone\_s: '(269)258-3990',
 website\_s: 'daija.me',
 company:
 { name\_s: 'Padberg-Gorczany',
 catchPhrase\_s: 'Face to face dedicated time-frame',
 bs\_s: 'streamline open-source portals' },
 weight\_i: 49 }

I've been surprised by results:
1) Insert into /types/users\_t/buckets/users/keys/[key] - 400 ops/s.
2) Insert into /buckets/users/keys/[keys] - 40 ops/s

Initially I tested same app with single Riak node and performance for
data-type'd bucket was ~300ops/s.
But once I add second node to cluster performance dropped almost 7.5 times.
Does it mean that distributed Yokozuna is so slow?

P/S:
I run node.js app on separate machine. They all in same 1Gb network.
In case of one Riak node the bottleneck is storage.
In case of two Riak nodes there is not bottleneck. I mean there is enough
free IO (disk and network), CPU and RAM resources.

Regards
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

