---
title: "Re: Java Client with POJOs"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-11-11T11:48:01-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12936"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12935"
author_name: "Michael Guymon"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-11-11T11:48:01-08:00
---



Hi Roach,

Thanks for taking a moment to give me a hand with this. Let me try and 
be a bit more clear on what I am trying to figure out. My first steps 
are a Class Account:


 public class Account implements Serializable {
 private String email;
 }

Storing the account via

 myBucket.store("key", account).withoutFetch().execute();

then retrieving it with a map reduce using JS, along the lines of:

 var accounts = [];
 for( i=0; i wrote:

Hello,

I have a (hopefully dumb) question about working with the Java client and
POJOs. I justed started tinkering with Riak and have created a simple
Account POJO and happily crammed it into a bucket "test1" and mapped reduced
it (hooray). The problem starts when I updated the Class for Account, adding
a new String property "minty". Now the map reduce fails for that the new
property in the bucket "test1". Seems like the POJO is always being
serialized to the format of the older Account class. If I create a new
bucket, "test2", and cram and reduce anew, everything works again.

I have been grepping around the docs, but have not been able to zero in on
my issue. Am I doing something bone headed? Is it possible to update a
bucket to support a modified POJO class?

thanks,
Michael

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

