---
title: "Re: Core Claim and Property-Based Tests"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2017-05-16T13:04:20-0700
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg18213"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg18212"
author_name: "DeadZen"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2017-05-16T13:04:20-0700
---


I'd like to keep the core project going, just depends on how much interest
there is.
There are a lot of separate issues and stalled initiatives, if anyone likes
to discuss them. Some have to do simply with scaling Distributed Erlang.
Theres a riak core mailing list as well that probably could use some fresh
air.

Thanks,
Pedram

On Tue, May 16, 2017 at 3:29 PM Christopher Meiklejohn <
christopher.meiklej...@gmail.com> wrote:

> We're looking at mainly leveraging partisan for changing the
> underlying communication structure -- we hope to have via support in
> Partisan soon along with connection multiplexing, so we hope to avoid
> bottlenecks related to head-of-line-blocking in distributed Erlang, be
> able to support SSL/TLS easier for intra-cluster communication and
> have more robust visibility into how the cluster is operating.
>
> One thing we learned from Riak MDC is that the single connection's
> used in distributed Erlang are a bottleneck and difficult to apply
> flow and congestion control to -- where, we believe a solution based
> completely on gen\_tcp would be more flexible.
>
> [Keep in mind this is a ~1 year vision at the moment.]
>
> Thanks,
> - Christopher
>
> On Tue, May 16, 2017 at 9:20 PM, Martin Sumner
>  wrote:
> > Chris,
> >
> > Is this only the communications part, so the core concepts like the Ring,
> > preflists, the Claimant role, the claim algo etc will remain the same?
> >
> > Where's the best place to start reading about Partisan, I'm interested in
> > the motivation for changing that part of Core. Is there a special use
> case
> > or problem you're focused on (e,g. gossip problems in much larger
> clusters)?
> >
> > Ta
> >
> > Martin
> >
> > On 16 May 2017 at 20:06, Christopher Meiklejohn
> >  wrote:
> >>
> >> For what it's worth, the Lasp community is looking at doing a fork of
> >> Riak Core replacing all communication with our Partisan library and
> >> moving it completely off of distributed Erlang. We'd love to hear
> >> from more folks that are interested in this work.
> >>
> >> - Christopher
> >>
> >> On Tue, May 16, 2017 at 6:53 PM, Tom Santero 
> wrote:
> >> > I'm aware of a few other companies and individuals who are interested
> in
> >> > continued development and support in a post-Basho world. Ideally the
> >> > community can come together and contribute to a single, canonical
> fork.
> >> >
> >> > Semi-related, there's a good chance this mailing list won't last much
> >> > longer, either. I'm happy to personally contribute time and resources
> to
> >> > help maintain the community.
> >> >
> >> > Tom
> >> >
> >> > On Tue, May 16, 2017 at 11:51 AM, Martin Sumner
> >> >  wrote:
> >> >>
> >> >>
> >> >> I've raised an issue with Core today
> >> >> (https://github.com/basho/riak\_core/issues/908), related to the
> claim
> >> >> algorithms.
> >> >>
> >> >> There's a long-read associated with this, which provides a broader
> >> >> analysis of how claim works with the ring:
> >> >>
> >> >>
> >> >>
> >> >>
> https://github.com/martinsumner/riak\_core/blob/mas-claimv2issues/docs/ring\_claim.md
> >> >>
> >> >> I believe the long-read explains some of the common mysterious issues
> >> >> which can occur with claim.
> >> >>
> >> >> We're in the process of fixing up the property-based tests for
> >> >> riak\_core\_claim.erl, and will then be looking to make some
> improvements
> >> >> to
> >> >> claim v2 to try and pass the improved tests.
> >> >>
> >> >> Big question is though, how can we progress any contribution we make
> >> >> into
> >> >> the Riak codebase? What is the plan going forward for open-source
> >> >> contributions to Riak? Do Basho have any contingency plans for
> >> >> smoothly
> >> >> handing over open-source code to the community, before the list of
> >> >> Basho's
> >> >> Github people (https://github.com/orgs/basho/people) who still work
> at
> >> >> Basho
> >> >> is reduced to zero?
> >> >>
> >> >> Is this something of concern to others?
> >> >>
> >> >> Regards
> >> >>
> >> >> Martin
> >> >>
> >> >>
> >> >> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> >> >> riak-users mailing list
> >> >> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> >> >> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> >> >>
> >> >
> >> >
> >> > \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> >> > riak-users mailing list
> >> > riak-users@lists.basho.com
> >> > http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> >> >
> >
> >
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

