---
title: "Re: Riak-CS , S3cmd and A single Node outage on a 3 node cluster"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-08-22T17:38:32-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12120"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12111"
author_name: "Kelly McLaughlin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-08-22T17:38:32-07:00
---


Idan,Actually in the case you described of using a 3 node Riak cluster with n\_val of 2 the behavior you see makes perfect sense. When using only three nodes Riak does not guarantee that all replicas of an object will be on distinct physical nodes. So if you have one node down you can hit a case where both of the replicas of an object stored in Riak live on the downed node. This explains the reason you see occasional failure to retrieve an object with s3cmd, but most of the time it works just fine. It is for this reason we strongly recommend people to use at least 5 nodes in their production deployments. For testing, using at least use 4 nodes in the cluster will likely reduce the chances of this situation occurring versus using only 3.Also just be very cautious about reducing the n\_val to 2. You will save on storage space doing that, but there is a trade-off to be made in availability and performance in doing so. Hope that helps shed some light. Kelly On August 22, 2013 at 10:12:06 AM, Idan Shinberg (idan.shinb...@idomoo.com) wrote: Thanks for the aidThis is a testing environemt . no-one accesses it aside of mePrior to creating the objects via riak-cs , I set the cluster to n\_val 2 for the default bucket props .
On that empty cluster , i started creating objects . ( around 500) .Then I stopped and killed one of the nodes . Then the issues mentioned above were seen.still doesn't make any  sense...
Regards,Idan Shinberg
System Architect
Idomoo Ltd. 
Mob +972.54.562.2072email idan.shinb...@idomoo.com
web www.idomoo.com



<>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

