---
title: "Re: RIAK Search - Active Anti-Entropy"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-01-09T12:07:11-0800
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15466"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15465"
author_name: "Luke Bakken"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-01-09T12:07:11-0800
---


Nirav,

You will have to GET and PUT every object to index it into Solr.
--
Luke Bakken
Engineer
lbak...@basho.com


On Fri, Jan 9, 2015 at 10:54 AM, Nirav Shah  wrote:
> Hi Luke,
>
> Let me rephrase it.
>
>
> 1. We currently have 2i based searches in our code. We are trying to move it
> to Solr as per Basho’s recommendation
>
> 2. To achieve this we created Solr schema. But when we tried it in dev, we
> noticed Solr indexes only gets created for the new data and not for existing
> data (captured prior to enabling Solr search)
>
> 3. To be able to implement Solr search successfully, we need to make sure
> that Solr indexes existing data in current RIAK bucket.
>
>
> Thanks,
> Nirav
>
>
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> From: Luke Bakken 
> To: Nirav Shah 
> Cc: "riak-users@lists.basho.com" 
> Sent: Friday, January 9, 2015 10:22 AM
>
> Subject: Re: RIAK Search - Active Anti-Entropy
>
> Hi Nirav,
>
> If I'm reading your description correctly - you'd like your secondary
> index data to be automatically migrated to Riak Search?
>
> --
> Luke Bakken
> Engineer
> lbak...@basho.com
>
>
>
> On Wed, Jan 7, 2015 at 10:36 PM, Nirav Shah  wrote:
>> Hi Luke,
>> Can you please advice. ?
>>
>> "I have a production database which is fairly large and uses Secondary
>> Indexes. I was planning to move away from Secondary Index to RIAK
>> Search(SOLR). Can someone please let me know if Active Anti-Entropy will
>> take care of ensuring that all the existing data that i currently have in
>> Production will be automatically synced up once i move to RIAK Search and
>> i
>> should be able to search on those fields. If not, is there any
>> configuration/Settings that can help me achieve this? "
>>
>>
>> Regards,
>> Nirav
>
>

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

