---
title: "Re: Bug: Stanchion 1.5 in repo along riak cs 2.0"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-06-16T00:43:13-0700
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16248"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16234"
author_name: "Toby Corkindale"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-06-16T00:43:13-0700
---


Glad we got to the bottom of it.
You should probably look at updating your docs for Riak-CS and removing
stanchion 1.5 from the repo to avoid future confusion?

On Wed, 10 Jun 2015 at 00:46 Kota Uenishi  wrote:

> I got it! Good catch, Chris.
>
> Toby, you should follow these instructions to get the latest Stanchion:
>
> https://packagecloud.io/basho/stanchion/install
>
> as it looks like we have different repository since 2.0. I did follow
> these instructions prior to try my test earlier in this loop.
>
> For Riak CS package, this instructions might be more precise because
> it's automatically generated:
>
> https://packagecloud.io/basho/riak-cs/install
>
> On Tue, Jun 9, 2015 at 11:02 PM, Christopher Mancini 
> wrote:
> > Kota,
> >
> > I think Toby is right, if you look at packagecloud.io, there is no
> reference
> > to stanchion 2, only 1.5.
> >
> > https://packagecloud.io/basho/riak-cs?filter=debs
> >
> > Not sure who can fix this, but its certainly not aligned with our
> > recommendations.
> >
> >
> > On Mon, Jun 8, 2015 at 9:04 PM, Toby Corkindale  wrote:
> >>
> >> Hi Kota,
> >> I was installing these on fresh 14.04 VMs, so I don't know how I could
> >> have had stale apt-cache info re Stanchion, but still had up to date
> riak-cs
> >> package info.
> >> Oh well, if you couldn't reproduce it, never mind. Thanks for trying.
> >>
> >> Cheers
> >> Toby
> >>
> >> On Mon, 8 Jun 2015 at 11:54 Kota Uenishi  wrote:
> >>>
> >>> Toby,
> >>>
> >>> I tried to reproduce your problem in my clean ubuntu 14.04 which is a
> >>> fresh docker image, but failed. No recommendation was made. Maybe
> state of
> >>> your apt repository or something is stale?
> >>>
> >>> # apt-get install riak-cs=2.0.1-1
> >>>
> >>> Reading package lists... Done
> >>>
> >>> Building dependency tree
> >>>
> >>> Reading state information... Done
> >>>
> >>> The following NEW packages will be installed:
> >>>
> >>> riak-cs
> >>>
> >>> 0 upgraded, 1 newly installed, 0 to remove and 25 not upgraded.
> >>>
> >>> Need to get 20.1 MB of archives.
> >>>
> >>> After this operation, 36.8 MB of additional disk space will be used.
> >>>
> >>> Fetched 20.1 MB in 6s (3322 kB/s)
> >>>
> >>> Selecting previously unselected package riak-cs.
> >>>
> >>> (Reading database ... 12002 files and directories currently installed.)
> >>>
> >>> Preparing to unpack .../riak-cs\_2.0.1-1\_amd64.deb ...
> >>>
> >>> Unpacking riak-cs (2.0.1-1) ...
> >>>
> >>> Processing triggers for ureadahead (0.100.0-16) ...
> >>>
> >>> Setting up riak-cs (2.0.1-1) ...
> >>>
> >>> Adding group `riak' (GID 105) ...
> >>>
> >>> Done.
> >>>
> >>> Adding system user `riakcs' (UID 102) ...
> >>>
> >>> Adding new user `riakcs' (UID 102) with group `riak' ...
> >>>
> >>> Not creating home directory `/var/lib/riak-cs'.
> >>>
> >>> Processing triggers for ureadahead (0.100.0-16) ...
> >>>
> >>> # apt-get install stanchion=2.0.0-1
> >>>
> >>> Reading package lists... Done
> >>>
> >>> Building dependency tree
> >>>
> >>> Reading state information... Done
> >>>
> >>> The following NEW packages will be installed:
> >>>
> >>> stanchion
> >>>
> >>> 0 upgraded, 1 newly installed, 0 to remove and 25 not upgraded.
> >>>
> >>> Need to get 18.4 MB of archives.
> >>>
> >>> After this operation, 34.0 MB of additional disk space will be used.
> >>>
> >>> Fetched 18.4 MB in 5s (3163 kB/s)
> >>>
> >>> Selecting previously unselected package stanchion.
> >>>
> >>> (Reading database ... 13780 files and directories currently installed.)
> >>>
> >>> Preparing to unpack .../stanchion\_2.0.0-1\_amd64.deb ...
> >>>
> >>> Unpacking stanchion (2.0.0-1) ...
> >>>
> >>> Processing triggers for ureadahead (0.100.0-16) ...
> >>>
> >>> Setting up stanchion (2.0.0-1) ...
> >>>
> >>> Adding system user `stanchion' (UID 103) ...
> >>>
> >>> Adding new user `stanchion' (UID 103) with group `riak' ...
> >>>
> >>> Not creating home directory `/var/lib/stanchion'.
> >>>
> >>> Processing triggers for ureadahead (0.100.0-16) ...
> >>>
> >>> #
> >>>
> >>>
> >>>
> >>> On Fri, Jun 5, 2015 at 11:40 PM, Matthew Brender 
> >>> wrote:
> >>>>
> >>>> For others not finding it, the instructions show up here:
> >>>>
> >>>>
> https://packagecloud.io/basho/riak-cs/packages/ubuntu/trusty/riak-cs\_2.0.0-1\_amd64.deb
> >>>>
> >>>>
> >>>> Matt Brender | Developer Advocacy Lead
> >>>> Basho Technologies
> >>>> t: @mjbrender
> >>>>
> >>>>
> >>>> On Fri, Jun 5, 2015 at 2:11 AM, Toby Corkindale 
> wrote:
> >>>> > Hi Kota,
> >>>> > I'm installing Riak CS upon Ubuntu 14.04 (trusty), and was doing
> this
> >>>> > by
> >>>> > following the instructions to add the packagecloud.io Apt
> repository.
> >>>> > However that repository contains stanchion 1.5 rather than 2.0. (It
> >>>> > does,
> >>>> > however, contain Riak CS 2.0.1)
> >>>> >
> >>
> >>
> >> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> >> riak-users mailing list
> >> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> >> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> >>
> >
> >
> >
> > --
> > Sincerely,
> >
> > Christopher Mancini
> > -----------------------------
> >
> > employee = {
> > purpose: solve problems with code,
> > phone: 7164625591,
> > email: cmanc...@basho.com,
> > github: http://www.github.com/christophermancini
> > }
>
>
>
> --
> Kota UENISHI / @kuenishi
> Basho Japan KK
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

