---
title: "Re: Forcing Siblings to Occur"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-11-13T02:04:53-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12969"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12963"
author_name: "Carlos Baquero"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-11-13T02:04:53-08:00
---



Its interesting to see a use case where a grow only set is sufficient. I 
believe Riak 2.0 will offer optimized OR-Sets that allow item removal at the 
expense of some extra complexity in element storage and logarithmic metadata 
growth per operation. But for your case a simple direct set of elements with 
server side merge by set union looks perfect. Its not efficient at all to keep 
all those siblings if a simple server side merge can reduce them.

Maybe it is a good idea to not overlook the potential usefulness of simple grow 
only sets and add that datatype to the 2.0 server side CRDTs library. And maybe 
even 2P-Sets that only allow deleting once, might be useful for some cases. 

Regards,
Carlos

-----
Carlos Baquero
HASLab / INESC TEC &
Universidade do Minho,
Portugal

c...@di.uminho.pt
http://gsd.di.uminho.pt/cbm





On 12/11/2013, at 22:10, Jason Campbell wrote:

> I am currently forcing siblings for time series data. The maximum bucket 
> sizes are very predictable due to the nature of the data. I originally used 
> the get/update/set cycle, but as I approach the end of the interval, reading 
> and writing 1MB+ objects at a high frequency kills network bandwidth. So now, 
> I append siblings, and I have a cron that merges the previous siblings (a 
> simple set union works for me, only entire objects are ever deleted).
> 
> I can see how it can be dangerous to insert siblings, bit if you have some 
> other method of knowing how much data is in one, I don't see size being an 
> issue. I have also considered using a counter to know how large an object is 
> without fetching it, which shouldn't be off by more than a few siblings 
> unless there is a network partition.
> 
> So aside from size issues, which can be roughly predicted or worked around, 
> is there any reason to not create hundreds or thousands of siblings and 
> resolve them later? I realise sets could work well for my use case, but they 
> seem overkill for simple append operations when I don't need delete 
> functionality. Creating your own CRDTs are trivial if you never need to 
> delete.
> 
> Thoughts are welcome,
> Jason
> From: John Daily
> Sent: Wednesday, 13 November 2013 3:10 AM
> To: Olav Frengstad
> Cc: riak-users
> Subject: Re: Forcing Siblings to Occur
> 
> Forcing siblings other than for testing purposes is not typically a good 
> idea; as you indicate, the object size can easily become a problem as all 
> siblings will live inside the same Riak value.
> 
> Your counter-example sounds a lot like a use case for server-side CRDTs; data 
> structures that allow the application to add values without retrieving the 
> server-side content first, and siblings are resolved by Riak.
> 
> These will arrive with Riak 2.0; see 
> https://gist.github.com/russelldb/f92f44bdfb619e089a4d for an overview.
> 
> -John
> 
> On Nov 12, 2013, at 7:13 AM, Olav Frengstad  wrote:
> 
>> Do you consider forcing siblings a good idea? I would like to get some input 
>> on possible use cases and pitfalls.
>> For instance i have considered to force siblings and then merge them on read 
>> instead of fetching an object every time i want to update it (especially 
>> with larger objects).
>> 
>> It's not clear from the docs if there are any limitations, will the maximum 
>> object size be the limitation:?
>> 
>> A section of the docs[1] comees comes to mind:
>> 
>> "Having an enormous object in your node can cause reads of that object to 
>> crash the entire node. Other issues are increased cluster latency as the 
>> object is replicated and out of memory errors."
>> 
>> [1] http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/theory/concepts/Vector-Clocks/#Siblings
>> 
>> 2013/11/9 Brian Roach 
>> On Fri, Nov 8, 2013 at 11:38 AM, Russell Brown  wrote:
>> 
>> > If you’re using a well behaved client like the Riak-Java-Client, or any 
>> > other that gets a vclock before doing a put, use whatever option stops 
>> > that.
>> 
>> for (int i = 0; i < numReplicasWanted; i++) {
>> bucket.store("key", "value").withoutFetch().execute();
>> }
>> 
>> :)
>> 
>> - Roach
>> 
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> 
> 
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com



smime.p7s
Description: S/MIME cryptographic signature
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

