---
title: "Re: Forcing Siblings to Occur"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-11-12T21:43:58-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12965"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12964"
author_name: "Olav Frengstad"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-11-12T21:43:58-08:00
---


@John, I'm definitely looking forward to CRDT's but at the same time i'm
looking into alternative approaches for achieving the same thing.

@Jason, your description is close to what i had in mind. Only real
difference is merge would be on read. I did some testing and m/r seems to
work by using an initial map phase calling `riak\_object:get\_values`


There's also the addition of maximum number of siblings in riak-2.0[1]




2013/11/13 John Daily 

> Jason, I don’t see any inherent problems, given reasonable management of
> the situation as you describe. I’d have to chase the code path to see what
> overhead you’re introducing to Riak’s processing, but if it’s working well
> for you, then who am I to object?
>
> Perhaps someone who’s more familiar with the sibling management code could
> chime in.
>
> -John
>
>
> On Nov 12, 2013, at 5:10 PM, Jason Campbell  wrote:
>
> I am currently forcing siblings for time series data. The maximum bucket
> sizes are very predictable due to the nature of the data. I originally used
> the get/update/set cycle, but as I approach the end of the interval,
> reading and writing 1MB+ objects at a high frequency kills network
> bandwidth. So now, I append siblings, and I have a cron that merges the
> previous siblings (a simple set union works for me, only entire objects are
> ever deleted).
>
> I can see how it can be dangerous to insert siblings, bit if you have some
> other method of knowing how much data is in one, I don't see size being an
> issue. I have also considered using a counter to know how large an object
> is without fetching it, which shouldn't be off by more than a few siblings
> unless there is a network partition.
>
> So aside from size issues, which can be roughly predicted or worked
> around, is there any reason to not create hundreds or thousands of siblings
> and resolve them later? I realise sets could work well for my use case, but
> they seem overkill for simple append operations when I don't need delete
> functionality. Creating your own CRDTs are trivial if you never need to
> delete.
>
> Thoughts are welcome,
> Jason
> \*From: \*John Daily
> \*Sent: \*Wednesday, 13 November 2013 3:10 AM
> \*To: \*Olav Frengstad
> \*Cc: \*riak-users
> \*Subject: \*Re: Forcing Siblings to Occur
>
> Forcing siblings other than for testing purposes is not typically a good
> idea; as you indicate, the object size can easily become a problem as all
> siblings will live inside the same Riak value.
>
> Your counter-example sounds a lot like a use case for server-side CRDTs;
> data structures that allow the application to add values without retrieving
> the server-side content first, and siblings are resolved by Riak.
>
> These will arrive with Riak 2.0; see
> https://gist.github.com/russelldb/f92f44bdfb619e089a4d for an overview.
>
> -John
>
> On Nov 12, 2013, at 7:13 AM, Olav Frengstad  wrote:
>
> Do you consider forcing siblings a good idea? I would like to get some
> input on possible use cases and pitfalls.
> For instance i have considered to force siblings and then merge them on
> read instead of fetching an object every time i want to update it
> (especially with larger objects).
>
> It's not clear from the docs if there are any limitations, will the
> maximum object size be the limitation:?
>
> A section of the docs[1] comees comes to mind:
>
> "Having an enormous object in your node can cause reads of that object to
> crash the entire node. Other issues are increased cluster latency as the
> object is replicated and out of memory errors."
>
> [1]
> http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/theory/concepts/Vector-Clocks/#Siblings
>
> 2013/11/9 Brian Roach 
>
>> On Fri, Nov 8, 2013 at 11:38 AM, Russell Brown 
>> wrote:
>>
>> > If you’re using a well behaved client like the Riak-Java-Client, or any
>> other that gets a vclock before doing a put, use whatever option stops that.
>>
>> for (int i = 0; i < numReplicasWanted; i++) {
>> bucket.store("key", "value").withoutFetch().execute();
>> }
>>
>> :)
>>
>> - Roach
>>
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
>


-- 
Med Vennlig Hilsen
Olav Frengstad

Systemutvikler // FWT
+47 920 42 090
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

