---
title: "Re: RFC: Let's Make Riak-Core Easier to Use"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-11-01T09:09:33-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12819"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12796"
author_name: "Patrick Schless"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-11-01T09:09:33-07:00
---


+1 for better docs, progressive examples, and better tooling


On Tue, Oct 29, 2013 at 7:13 PM, Sam Elliott  wrote:

> Hey Riak-Users (and Riak-Core)
>
> Some time ago, Basho released riak\_core as a framework for building
> distributed applications [1].
> One of the key pieces of guidance that was given at the time was that you
> should use the features
> of riak\_kv if your app needed to do any persistence. With the new features
> we'll be releasing in
> 2.0 [2], we want to make riak\_core the best toolkit for building complex
> distributed applications
> with both CP and AP semantics.
>
> As I see it, the main thing that is preventing most people from writing
> their own riak\_core
> application is that there's not an API that allows people to easily do so.
> There's a basic internal
> KV client at the moment, but there are some features that it doesn't cover.
>
> Post-RICON (and almost certainly after the 2.0 release), I'm going to
> focus on making riak\_core
> applications really easy to make, and riak\_kv easy to use from a riak\_core
> application.
>
> I'd love any feedback that you all have. How can we improve the current
> APIs? How can we make it
> really easy for people to create riak\_core apps? How can we nicely expose
> the newest features of
> riak\_kv for people to use in their riak\_core applications?
>
> Bonus points for feedback from anyone who has built and run a riak\_core
> application in production.
>
> Sam
>
> PS: I have some swag to give to anyone who's helpful
>
> [1]: http://basho.com/where-to-start-with-riak-core/
> [2]: http://basho.com/introducing-riak-2-0/
>
>
>
> --
> Sam Elliott
> Engineer
> sam.elli...@basho.com
> --
>
>
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-core mailing list
> riak-c...@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-core\_lists.basho.com
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

