---
title: "Re: Link Walking and Security"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-01-21T03:22:24-0800
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15545"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15544"
author_name: "José Ghislain Quenum"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-01-21T03:22:24-0800
---


well the application I am developing is Collaboration support tool. You
have a bunch of concepts (organization, project, collaboration activities,
events, etc). Some of these concepts are connected. So, I could have
modeled them with a Relational DB. But I really wanted to take advantage of
Riak's distributed nature. So I decided to use links to model the
connection between the concepts. Now transitioning to Riak 2.0 is a bit of
a problem to me. Since I need to change the design of my DB and remove
links and their walking. I have been considering moving the links to a
graph DB like Neo4j or even redesign the links as additional attributes in
the concepts themselves. None of these seems like a clean solution to me.
If I could have pointers about new ways of designing connections or links
in risk 2.0 without using link walking that'd be cool.
Any help?
José

On Wed, Jan 21, 2015 at 1:10 PM, Christopher Meiklejohn <
cmeiklej...@basho.com> wrote:

> On Wed, Jan 21, 2015 at 12:07 PM, José Ghislain Quenum
>  wrote:
> > Then,
> > where can one find pointers or documentation about alternative design to
> > link walking?
>
> Hi Jose,
>
> I personally like to think of link walking as one solution that could
> be used to solve many different problems. Can you clarify a bit about
> the data you are trying to model so we can identify what the best way
> to model it would be?
>
> Thanks!
> - Chris
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

