---
title: "Re: Node is not running!"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2017-02-23T05:21:13-0800
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg18014"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg18007"
author_name: "Jurgen Ramaliu"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2017-02-23T05:21:13-0800
---


Hi Paul and Magnus,
I have resolve it by using command :


 - riak stop


 - changing nodename into file riak.conf from nodename = riak@127.0.0.1
 to riak@192.168.1.10


 - riak-admin reip riak@127.0.0.1 riak@192.168.1.10

But I have another problem, riak starts with this IP but shut down after
about 15 seconds.


Can you tell me how can I resolve this?

Regards,
Jurgen


On Wed, Feb 22, 2017 at 4:43 PM, Magnus Kessler  wrote:

> On 22 February 2017 at 10:34, Jurgen Ramaliu 
> wrote:
>
>> Hello RIAK,
>>
>> I have one problem with riak node configuration. I have install RIAK KV
>> and everything is ok.
>> I run \*riak start\* on my CentOS 6.5 and it starts ok.
>> I have configure file \*/etc/hosts\* :
>>
>> \*127.0.0.1 localhost localhost.localdomain localhost4
>> localhost4.localdomain4\*
>> \*::1 localhost localhost.localdomain localhost6
>> localhost6.localdomain6\*
>> \*192.168.1.10 riak1.mydomain.com 
>> riak1\*
>>
>> and this file \*/etc/sysconfig/network\* :
>>
>> \*NETWORKING=yes\*
>> \*HOSTNAME=riak1.mydomain.com \*
>>
>> But, when i try to do this steps, on this link :
>> http://docs.basho.com/riak/kv/2.2.0/using/running-a-cluste
>> r/#configure-the-first-node
>>
>> to configure first node, when I change nodename form :
>> \*nodename = riak@127.0.0.1 \* to \*nodename
>> = riak@192.168.1.10 \* , riak doesn't start, I take
>> back this error messages :
>>
>> [root@riak1 ~]# riak start
>> Node 'riak@192.168.1.10' not responding to pings.
>> Node 'riak@192.168.1.10' not responding to pings.
>> Node is not running!
>>
>>
>>
>> or \*nodename = r...@riak1.mydomain.com \*, riak
>> doesn't start, I take back this error messages :
>>
>> [root@riak1 ~]# riak start
>>
>> Node 'r...@riak1.mydomain.com' not responding to pings.
>> Node 'r...@riak1.mydomain.com' not responding to pings.
>> Node is not running!
>>
>> Can you please tell me how can I resolve this problem?
>>
>> Thank you in advance,
>>
>> Jurgen
>>
>>
> Hi Jurgen,
>
> When a node is started for the first time, its name is recorded in the
> ring file (a file under /var/lib/riak/ring by default on CentOS). For a
> single node that hasn't joined a cluster, yet, the easiest way to start the
> node with a new node name is to simply remove the ring directory and then
> start the node. Please note that any changes to bucket properties for
> buckets under the default bucket type get lost in this process. If any such
> changes have been made, re-apply them once the node has been restarted.
>
> Kind Regards,
>
> Magnus
>
> --
> Magnus Kessler
> Client Services Engineer
> Basho Technologies Limited
>
> Registered Office - 8 Lincoln’s Inn Fields London WC2A 3BP Reg 07970431
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

