---
title: "Re: Riak 2.0.0 RC1"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-07-21T15:05:30-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14526"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14523"
author_name: "Alex De la rosa"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-07-21T15:05:30-07:00
---


Cool! thanks, can't wait to have the updated Python library running :) we
have a new project incoming at work and would be awesome to be able to
start development with 2.0 and the Python client.

Thanks,
Alex


On Mon, Jul 21, 2014 at 11:58 PM, Jared Morrow  wrote:

> The clients are still being finalized. Word on the street is the Java
> client RC will be very soon, and the other clients will follow. The person
> who would know best has today off, but stay tuned.
>
> Thanks,
> Jared
>
>
> On Mon, Jul 21, 2014 at 3:38 PM, Alex De la rosa 
> wrote:
>
>> Awesome! Can't wait to try it! What about the python client for Riak 2.0?
>> I remember testing the actual version and still have many issues and
>> non-workable new features (like counters, sets, maps, etc.)
>>
>> Thanks!
>> Alex
>>
>>
>> On Mon, Jul 21, 2014 at 11:34 PM, Jared Morrow  wrote:
>>
>>> Riak-Users,
>>>
>>> Everyone at Basho is extremely happy to announce the public availability
>>> of Riak 2.0.0 RC. As a release candidate, we do not recommend using it in
>>> production, but it should be considered feature and API complete for Riak
>>> 2.0 final. We reserve the right to make changes for any data-loss or severe
>>> performance issues found post-RC, but these will not affect the API.
>>>
>>> This is our most ambitious release, with major new features throughout
>>> the product. With that in mind, please take plenty of time to read through
>>> the Release Notes. There are some important considerations regarding
>>> upgrades, known issues, and packaging. The Release Notes are still a
>>> work-in-progress and will be continually updated as we march towards 2.0
>>> final. We have made a lot of progress on our docs site
>>>  for 2.0, but still have work to do before final
>>> release. We appreciate your patience.
>>>
>>> -
>>>
>>> \*Release Notes\*:
>>> https://github.com/basho/riak/blob/2.0/RELEASE-NOTES.md
>>> -
>>>
>>> \*Downloads\*: http://docs.basho.com/riak/2.0.0/downloads/
>>> Note: There will be minor tweaks to the download site to show the
>>> labels for SuSE Enterprise Linux and Ubuntu 14.04 packages
>>> -
>>>
>>> \*APT/YUM Repos\* (see release-notes re: this change):
>>> https://packagecloud.io/basho/riak/install Note: If you are
>>> downloading the files directly, use our docs site. For apt/yum repo
>>> install, use packagecloud.
>>>
>>> Thanks to everyone in our community,
>>> -Team Basho
>>> ​
>>>
>>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>>> riak-users mailing list
>>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>>
>>>
>>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

