---
title: "Re: Riak PB Client for Node.js"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-06-03T16:48:10-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11211"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg11209"
author_name: "Mark Phillips"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-06-03T16:48:10-07:00
---


Hey Pedro,

Thanks for passing this along. I just opened a PR [0] to add it to the Riak
Docs (along with the code Troy Malhese just released [1]).

Which reminds me - if anyone else has code that should be on the community
projects page, don't hesitate to add it.

At the risk of taking this totally off-topic, can you talk a bit about how
CrowdProcess is using the client/Riak? "We're turning the internet into a
super computer" sounds pretty ambitious. I'm mostly curious how Riak plays
into that. :)

Mark


[0] https://github.com/basho/basho\_docs/pull/418
[1] https://github.com/natural/zukai


On Mon, Jun 3, 2013 at 1:29 AM, Pedro Teixeira wrote:

> Riak-pb  is a Riak Node.js
> client module that uses Protocol Buffers (instead of HTTP) to talk to Riak.
> It has the following features:
>
> - Automatically reconnects if disconnected
> - Can be configured with an array of nodes, load-balancing between them
> - Uses connection pooling, using many connections in parallel to speed
> up concurrent requests
> - Automatically retries if client gets disconnected during request
> - Provides a streaming interface for when Riak uses streaming replies
>
> Riak-pb is entirely written in JavaScript, using 
> protobuf.js to
> encode and decode protocol buffers.
>
> (Because it makes use of Streams2, Riak-pb is only compatible with Node.js
> >= 0.10).
>
> Enjoy!
>
> -Pedro
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

