---
title: "Re: Practical Riak cluster choices in AWS (number of nodes? AZ's?)"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-08-12T11:40:48-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11980"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg11974"
author_name: "Dave Martorana"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-08-12T11:40:48-07:00
---


Jared - thanks for the links. I'm in the same boat with Brady with weighing
deployment options in AWS.

Jeremiah - isn't EBS the only option once your data starts reaching into
the hundreds-of-gigs?

Dave


On Sun, Aug 11, 2013 at 8:57 PM, Jared Morrow  wrote:

> +1 to what Jeremiah said, putting a 4 or 5 node cluster in each US West
> and US East using MDC between them would be the optimum solution. I'm also
> not buying consistent latencies between AZ's, but I've also not tested it
> personally in a production environment. We have many riak-users members on
> AWS, so hopefully more experienced people will chime in.
>
> If you haven't seen them already, here's what I have in my "Riak on AWS"
> bookmark folder:
>
> http://media.amazonwebservices.com/AWS\_NoSQL\_Riak.pdf
> http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/ops/tuning/aws/
> http://basho.com/riak-on-aws-deployment-options/
>
> -Jared
>
>
>
>
> On Sun, Aug 11, 2013 at 6:11 PM, Jeremiah Peschka <
> jeremiah.pesc...@gmail.com> wrote:
>
>> I'd be wary of using EBS backed nodes for Riak - with only a single
>> ethernet connection, it wil be very easy to saturate the max of 1000mbps
>> available in a single AWS NIC (unless you're using cluster compute
>> instances). I'd be more worried about temporarily losing contact with a
>> node through network saturation than through AZ failure, truthfully.
>>
>> The beauty of Riak is that a node can drop and you can replace it with
>> minimal fuss. Use that to your advantage and make every node in the cluster
>> disposable.
>>
>> As far as doubling up in one AZ goes - if you're worried about AZ
>> failure, you should treat each AZ as a separate data center and design your
>> failure scenarios accordingly. Yes, Amazon say you should put one Riak node
>> in each AZ; I'm not buying that. With no guarantee around latency, and no
>> control around between DCs, you need to be very careful how much of that
>> latency you're willing to introduce into your application.
>>
>> Were I in your position, I'd stand up a 5 node cluster in US-WEST-2 and
>> be done with it. I'd consider Riak EE for my HA/DR solution once the
>> business decides that off-site HA/DR is something it wants/needs.
>>
>>
>> ---
>> Jeremiah Peschka - Founder, Brent Ozar Unlimited
>> MCITP: SQL Server 2008, MVP
>> Cloudera Certified Developer for Apache Hadoop
>>
>>
>> On Sun, Aug 11, 2013 at 1:52 PM, Brady Wetherington > > wrote:
>>
>>> Hi all -
>>>
>>> I have some questions about how I want my Riak stuff to work - I've
>>> already asked these questions of some Basho people and gotten some answers,
>>> but thought I would toss it out into the wider world to see what you all
>>> have to say, too:
>>>
>>> First off - I know 5 instances is the "magic number" of instances to
>>> have. If I understand the thinking here, it's that at the default
>>> redundancy level ('n'?) of 3, it is most likely to start getting me some
>>> scaling (e.g., performance > just that of a single node), and yet also have
>>> redundancy; whereby I can lose one box and not start to take a performance
>>> hit.
>>>
>>> My question is - I think I can only do 4 in a way that makes sense. I
>>> only have 4 AZ's that I can use right now; AWS won't let me boot instances
>>> in 1a. My concern is if I try to do 5, I will be "doubling up" in one AZ -
>>> and in AWS you're almost as likely to lose an entire AZ as you are a single
>>> instance. And so, if I have instances doubled-up in one AZ (let's say
>>> us-east-1e), and then I lose 1e, I've now lost two instances. What are the
>>> chances that all three of my replicas of some chunk of my data are on those
>>> two instances? I know that it's not guaranteed that all replicas are on
>>> separate nodes.
>>>
>>> So is it better for me to ignore the recommendation of 5 nodes, and just
>>> do 4? Or to ignore the fact that I might be doubling-up in one AZ? Also,
>>> another note. These are designed to be 'durable' nodes, so if one should go
>>> down I would expect to bring it back up \*with\* its data - or, if I
>>> couldn't, I would do a force-replace or replace and rebuild it from the
>>> other replicas. I'm definitely not doing instance-store. So I don't know if
>>> that mitigates my need for a full 5 nodes. I would also consider losing one
>>> node to be "degraded" and would probably seek to fix that problem as soon
>>> as possible, so I wouldn't expect to be in that situation for long. I would
>>> probably tolerate a drop in performance during that time, too. (Not a
>>> super-severe one, but 20-30 percent? Sure.)
>>>
>>> What do you folks think?
>>>
>>> -B.
>>>
>>>
>>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>>> riak-users mailing list
>>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>>
>>>
>>
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>
>>
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

