---
title: "Re: object sizes"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-04-17T13:42:06-0700
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16035"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16014"
author_name: "Alex De la rosa"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-04-17T13:42:06-0700
---


Hi Matthew,

I don't have a github account so seems i'm not able to create the ticket
for this feature, could you do it?

Thanks,
Alex

On Thu, Apr 16, 2015 at 10:08 PM, Alex De la rosa 
wrote:

> Hi Matthew,
>
> Thanks for your answer : ) i always have interesting questions : P
>
> about point [2]... if you see my examples, i'm already using
> sys.getsizeof()... but sizes are not so accurate, also, I believe that is
> the size they take on RAM when loaded by Python and not the full exact size
> of the object (specially on Maps that differs quite some).
>
> I will open the ticket then : ) I think it can be very helpful future
> feature.
>
> Thanks,
> Alex
>
> On Thu, Apr 16, 2015 at 10:03 PM, Matthew Brender 
> wrote:
>
>> Hi Alex,
>>
>> That is an interesting question! I haven't seen a request like that in
>> our backlog, so feel free to open a new issue [1]. I'm curious: why
>> not use something like sys.getsizeof [2]?
>>
>> [1] https://github.com/basho/riak-python-client/issues
>> [2]
>> http://stackoverflow.com/questions/449560/how-do-i-determine-the-size-of-an-object-in-python
>>
>> Matt Brender | Developer Advocacy Lead
>> Basho Technologies
>> t: @mjbrender
>>
>>
>> On Mon, Apr 13, 2015 at 7:26 AM, Alex De la rosa
>>  wrote:
>> > Hi Bryan,
>> >
>> > Thanks for your answer; i don't know how to code in erlang, so all my
>> system
>> > relies on Python.
>> >
>> > Following Ciprian's curl suggestion, I tried to compare it with this
>> python
>> > code during the weekend:
>> >
>> > Map object:
>> > curl -I
>> >> 1058 bytes
>> > print sys.getsizeof(obj.value)
>> >> 3352 bytes
>> >
>> > Standard object:
>> > curl -I
>> >> 9718 bytes
>> > print sys.getsizeof(obj.encoded\_data)
>> >> 9755 bytes
>> >
>> > The standard object seems pretty accurate in both approaches even the
>> image
>> > binary data was only 5kbs (I assume some overhead here)
>> >
>> > The map object is about 3x the difference between curl and getting the
>> > object via Python.
>> >
>> > Not so sure if this is a realistic way to measure their growth (moreover
>> > because the objects i would need this monitorization are Maps, not
>> unaltered
>> > binary data that I can know the size before storing it).
>> >
>> > Would it be possible in some way that the Python get() function would
>> return
>> > something like "obj.content-lenght" returning the size is currently
>> taking?
>> > that would be a pretty nice feature.
>> >
>> > Thanks!
>> > Alex
>> >
>> > On Mon, Apr 13, 2015 at 12:47 PM, bryan hunt  wrote:
>> >>
>> >> Alex,
>> >>
>> >>
>> >> Maps and Sets are stored just like a regular Riak object, but using a
>> >> particular data structure and object serialization format. As you have
>> >> observed, there is an overhead, and you want to monitor the growth of
>> these
>> >> data structures.
>> >>
>> >> It is possible to write a MapReduce map function (in Erlang) which
>> >> retrieves a provided object by type/bucket/id and returns the size of
>> it's
>> >> data. Would such a thing be of use?
>> >>
>> >> It would not be hard to write such a module, and I might even have some
>> >> code for doing so if you are interested. There are also reasonably good
>> >> examples in our documentation -
>> >> http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/dev/advanced/mapreduce
>> >>
>> >> I haven't looked at the Python PB API in a while, but I'm reasonably
>> >> certain it supports the invocation of MapReduce jobs.
>> >>
>> >> Bryan
>> >>
>> >>
>> >> On 10 Apr 2015, at 13:51, Alex De la rosa 
>> wrote:
>> >>
>> >> Also, I forgot, i'm most interested on bucket\_types instead of simple
>> riak
>> >> buckets. Being able how my mutable data inside a MAP/SET has grown.
>> >>
>> >> For a traditional standard bucket I can calculate the size of what I'm
>> >> sending before, so Riak won't get data bigger than 1MB. Problem arise
>> in
>> >> MAPS/SETS that can grown.
>> >>
>> >> Thanks,
>> >> Alex
>> >>
>> >> On Fri, Apr 10, 2015 at 2:47 PM, Alex De la rosa <
>> alex.rosa....@gmail.com>
>> >> wrote:
>> >>>
>> >>> Well... using the HTTP Rest API would make no sense when using the PB
>> >>> API... would be extremely costly to maintain, also it may include
>> some extra
>> >>> bytes on the transport.
>> >>>
>> >>> I would be interested on being able to know the size via Python itself
>> >>> using the PB API as I'm doing.
>> >>>
>> >>> Thanks anyway,
>> >>> Alex
>> >>>
>> >>> On Fri, Apr 10, 2015 at 1:58 PM, Ciprian Manea 
>> wrote:
>> >>>>
>> >>>> Hi Alex,
>> >>>>
>> >>>> You can always query the size of a riak object using `curl` and the
>> REST
>> >>>> API:
>> >>>>
>> >>>> i.e. curl -I :8098/buckets/test/keys/demo
>> >>>>
>> >>>>
>> >>>> Regards,
>> >>>> Ciprian
>> >>>>
>> >>>> On Thu, Apr 9, 2015 at 12:11 PM, Alex De la rosa
>> >>>>  wrote:
>> >>>>>
>> >>>>> Hi there,
>> >>>>>
>> >>>>> I'm using the python client (by the way).
>> >>>>>
>> >>>>> obj = RIAK.bucket('my\_bucket').get('my\_key')
>> >>>>>
>> >>>>> Is there any way to know the actual size of an object stored in
>> Riak?
>> >>>>> to make sure something mutable (like a set) didn't added up to more
>> than 1MB
>> >>>>> in storage size.
>> >>>>>
>> >>>>> Thanks!
>> >>>>> Alex
>> >>>>>
>> >>>>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> >>>>> riak-users mailing list
>> >>>>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> >>>>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>> >>>>>
>> >>>>
>> >>>
>> >>
>> >> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> >> riak-users mailing list
>> >> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> >> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>> >>
>> >>
>> >
>> >
>> > \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> > riak-users mailing list
>> > riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> > http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>> >
>> á§
>>
>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

