---
title: "Fwd: Re: riak cluster suddenly became unresponsive"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-03-19T07:42:43-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10476"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg10456"
author_name: "Ingo Rockel"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-03-19T07:42:43-07:00
---



and the riak-users mailer-daemon should really set a "reply-to"...

-------- Original-Nachricht --------
Betreff: Re: riak cluster suddenly became unresponsive
Datum: Tue, 19 Mar 2013 15:40:12 +0100
Von: Ingo Rockel 
An: Mark Phillips 

Hi Mark,

thanks!

The 1.3 update is already planned.

But we will add the zdbbl first as we ran into the same issue yesterday
again.

Ingo

Am 19.03.2013 15:04, schrieb Mark Phillips:

Hi Ingo,

Sorry for the delay in getting back to you.

This looks symptomatic of some of the scheduler issues we fixed of 1.3.
A few of the eleveldb issues in the release notes [1] can provide
precise details. Is upgrading a possibility?

Tweaking your zdbbl in vm.args should alleviate some of the issues with
busy buffers but upgrading is probably your best path here.

Hope that helps. Keep us posted.

Mark

[1] https://github.com/basho/riak/blob/master/RELEASE-NOTES.md

On Friday, March 15, 2013, Ingo Rockel wrote:

 Hi,

 we have a 12 nodes cluster running riak 1.2.1 which went live a week
 ago. Yesterday, suddenly from one minute to another the
 put\_fsm\_time\_95 and the get\_fsm\_time\_95 raised from something below
 100ms up to several seconds. This went on for about 25 min and than
 went away.

 Checking the riak-logs of the nodes, I find a lot of these:

 2013-03-14 17:48:06.388 [info]
 <0.62.0>@riak\_core\_sysmon\_\_\_handler:handle\_event:89 Monitor got
 {suppressed,port\_events,1}
 2013-03-14 17:48:06.889 [info]
 <0.62.0>@riak\_core\_sysmon\_\_\_handler:handle\_event:85 monitor
 busy\_dist\_port <0.7156.1>
 
[{initial\_call,{riak\_core\_\_\_vnode,init,1}},{almost\_\_\_current\_function,{erlang,bif\_\_\_return\_trap,1}},{message\_\_\_queue\_len,1}]
 {#Port<0.9083226>,'riak@172.22.3.22'}

 This messages are logged all day, but only once every few minutes
 but in the problematic time frame between 17:45 and 18:17 it gets
 logged several times every second. The node ip differs though, but
 it seems only three nodes were involved.

 Except of these three nodes the cpu utilisation drops by half during
 this on all other nodes. On the three nodes there's only a slight drop.

 We are using leveldb as storage backend. I also checked some of the
 LOG files of leveldb and there are compactions logged, but these are
 logged all the day every few hours.

 In this time our software was quite unresponsive too so I would like
 to know what was causing this and what I might do to stop. Any
 ideas, hints?

 I found this:

 
https://groups.google.com/\_\_forum/?fromgroups=#!topic/\_\_nosql-databases/GqbaeiKCSYE
 


 where Jon Meredith suggests to raise the buffer size to get rid of
 the busy buffers by adding +zdbbl 16384 to the vm.args file. Might
 this help?

 Regards,

 Ingo
 --
 Software Architect

 Blue Lion mobile GmbH
 Tel. +49 (0) 221 788 797 14
 Fax. +49 (0) 221 788 797 19
 Mob. +49 (0) 176 24 87 30 89

 ingo.roc...@bluelionmobile.com
 >>> qeep: Hefferwolf

 www.bluelionmobile.com 
 www.qeep.net 

 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
 riak-users mailing list
 riak-users@lists.basho.com
 http://lists.basho.com/\_\_mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_\_\_lists.basho.com
 




--
Software Architect

Blue Lion mobile GmbH
Tel. +49 (0) 221 788 797 14
Fax. +49 (0) 221 788 797 19
Mob. +49 (0) 176 24 87 30 89

ingo.roc...@bluelionmobile.com

qeep: Hefferwolf


www.bluelionmobile.com
www.qeep.net



\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

