---
title: "Re: Unit testing, Riak buckets"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-10-13T19:21:45-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12614"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12613"
author_name: "Sean Cribbs"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-10-13T19:21:45-07:00
---


Not sure it's the greatest way (sometimes slow), but our integration
testing tool riak\_test uses git to store a clean "devrel" and resets/cleans
the git repository at the beginning of each test. If you're curious, I can
point you to the relevant sections of code that do this.


On Sun, Oct 13, 2013 at 8:34 PM, Jeremiah Peschka <
jeremiah.pesc...@gmail.com> wrote:

> For CorrugatedIron's integration tests, we frequently use a GUID as part
> of the bucket name and then destroy the bucket after tests finish. Since
> I'm frequently moving between different Riak builds, I destroy my data
> directories at the filesystem level on a regular basis.
>
> Your idea of using cron jobs to delete yesterday's buckets doesn't sound
> like a bad idea.
>
> Yes, listing buckets is bad in production. No, this isn't production.
> Therefore: LIST ALL THE THINGS!
>
> ---
> Jeremiah Peschka - Founder, Brent Ozar Unlimited
> MCITP: SQL Server 2008, MVP
> Cloudera Certified Developer for Apache Hadoop
>
>
> On Sun, Oct 13, 2013 at 8:27 PM, Toby Corkindale <
> toby.corkind...@strategicdata.com.au> wrote:
>
>> Hi,
>> I'd like to hear how other people are approaching the problem of cleaning
>> Riak buckets up at the end of unit tests for their apps.
>>
>> The problem I have is that multiple tests may be run at once (by
>> different developers or different Jenkins' jobs or even just a parallelised
>> test suite) so I can't really run a blanket delete-all at the end of the
>> test suite, unless I use a randomly-named bucket each time. Yet if I do
>> that, I'm concerned the test suite may crash out prior to the end
>> sometimes, and then never delete that randomly-named bucket.
>>
>>
>> If secondary indexes aren't required, then the easy solution is to use a
>> randomly-named Bitcask bucket which has a backend configured for a fairly
>> short TTL.
>>
>>
>> Otherwise, I have wondered about creating buckets with a certain format,
>> perhaps "test-XXXXXX-YYYY-MM-DD", (x=random) and then a nightly cron script
>> can run to find all buckets timestamped from the previous day or earlier,
>> and remove them. I gather listing all buckets is an expensive operation
>> though, although it'll only be running on a testing Riak cluster.
>>
>>
>> So I wondered how other developers are approaching this issue?
>>
>>
>> Cheers,
>> Toby
>>
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\*\*\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/\*\*mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_\*\*lists.basho.com
>>
>
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>


-- 
Sean Cribbs 
Software Engineer
Basho Technologies, Inc.
http://basho.com/
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

