---
title: "Re: Packagecloud.io issue"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-04-02T07:25:46-0700
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15956"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15955"
author_name: "Alex De la rosa"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-04-02T07:25:46-0700
---


Awesome, I just re-run the "aptitude update" and "aptitude safe-upgrade"
and riak didn't come again : )

Thanks!
Alex

On Wed, Apr 1, 2015 at 10:25 PM, Greg Cymbalski 
wrote:

> Alex-
> Turns out that there was an indexing issue with Packagecloud, which
> should be resolved now. Good news, no need to respin packages :)
>
> Thanks,
> —Greg
>
> On Apr 1, 2015, at 11:38 AM, Greg Cymbalski  wrote:
>
> Alex-
> We’ve managed to reproduce that issue and are researching it now. It
> does appear to be something in the package itself; not sure how that didn’t
> turn up until now.
>
> We’ll keep you updated. Thanks!
> —Greg
>
> On Mar 30, 2015, at 9:00 AM, riak-users-requ...@lists.basho.com wrote:
>
> Date: Mon, 30 Mar 2015 11:55:41 +0200
> From: Alex De la rosa 
> To: riak-users 
> Subject: Packagecloud.io issue
> Message-ID:
> 
> Content-Type: text/plain; charset="utf-8"
>
> Hi there,
>
> I want to report again a problem I have with packagecloud.io; everytime I
> do "aptitude update" I get a hit as if a new version of Riak is available
> (that is not)... and I have to re-install Riak to a version I already have.
>
> I just did an "aptitude safe-upgrade" and upgraded Riak to version 2.0.5
> (latest):
>
> # aptitude safe-upgrade
> The following packages will be upgraded:
> ... ... ... riak ... ... ... ... ... ...
> [...]
> Unpacking riak (2.0.5-1) over (2.0.1) ...
> [...]
>
> # riak version
> 2.0.5
>
> # aptitude update
> Hit https://packagecloud.io trusty InRelease
> Hit https://packagecloud.io trusty/main Sources
> Hit https://packagecloud.io trusty/main amd64 Packages
> Hit https://packagecloud.io trusty/main i386 Packages
>
> # aptitude safe-upgrade
> The following packages will be upgraded:
> riak
> 1 packages upgraded, 0 newly installed, 0 to remove and 0 not upgraded.
> Need to get 0 B/55.4 MB of archives. After unpacking 0 B will be used.
> Do you want to continue? [Y/n/?]
>
> if i select Y i get the following:
>
> Unpacking riak (2.0.5-1) over (2.0.5-1) ...
>
> and everytime I check for updates, "riak" comes as requiring an update
> although is not true. How to fix that? makes no sense it continues coming
> as needing to be upgraded when is the same exact version.
>
> Thanks,
> Alex
> -------------- next part --------------
> An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
> URL: <
> http://lists.basho.com/pipermail/riak-users\_lists.basho.com/attachments/20150330/b2e2620c/attachment-0001.html
> >
>
>
>
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

