---
title: "Re: Riak CS"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-07-15T14:32:04-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14498"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14488"
author_name: "Kelly McLaughlin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-07-15T14:32:04-07:00
---


Mohan,

I might be a bit confused on what your intent is, but it sounds like your task 
is to download a large group of files from S3 for processing and you are 
considering Riak CS for that processing work. If that is the case I am not sure 
Riak CS is the right fit for that job. Riak itself has a map reduce system 
built into it, but that is not exposed by Riak CS. Currently, Riak CS is 
strictly for storage and not data processing. If that is your need you might be 
better off looking at tools built for data processing like Spark or Hadoop. 

Kelly

On July 11, 2014 at 10:13:35 PM, Mohan Radhakrishnan 
(radhakrishnan.mo...@gmail.com) wrote:

I thought the general idea floating in my ignorant mind can help. We have other 
storage systems apart from S3 like FTPS, HTTPS etc. I thought the task of 
crawling remote storage systems and processing files naturally lent itself to 
distributed MR jobs and a DFS.

That is when I came across Riak CS.

Thanks,
Mohan


On Sat, Jul 12, 2014 at 9:32 AM, Mohan Radhakrishnan 
 wrote:
Hi,
             I came across the storage system discussion thread. We have a 
requirement to download thousands of files from S3 for processing. Ours is not 
a cloud storage system but a cloud access system.

Are there  qualities of Riak CS that can help us ? We want to download part of 
a huge file and checkpoint if the connection breaks. File downloads should be 
fault-tolerant when nodes go down.

Please bear with me if my question is basic. I don't work with distributed 
cloud storage systems.

Thanks,
Mohan

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ 
riak-users mailing list 
riak-users@lists.basho.com 
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com 
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

