---
title: "Re: Rick CS MethodNotAllowed"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-01-15T04:57:19-0800
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15503"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15497"
author_name: "Lee Sylvester"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-01-15T04:57:19-0800
---


Thank you, Toby, that was exactly it. I was originally hitting the correct 
domain, but was getting 500 errors. I swapped to hitting the IP while 
adjusting Riak CS to see if I could get it to work, when I stopped getting 500 
errors and started getting more meaningful errors. I guess I should have 
swapped it back to the domain :-)

Thanks again.
Lee



> On 15 Jan 2015, at 06:29, Toby Corkindale  wrote:
> 
> I'm going to take a punt that you're using the wrong domain name.
> Eg. you've told riak to use, say, s3.internal as the base, but you're
> actually sending queries to s3.example.com (or if you are using
> default settings on some tools, s3.amazonaws.com)
> 
> If you're using a reverse proxy in front, check that you're passing
> the Host: header back.
> 
> On 15 January 2015 at 06:42, Lee Sylvester  wrote:
>> Hi guys,
>> 
>> I’m pulling out hair, at the moment. I have Riak, Riak CS and Stanchion 
>> configured and running, but when I try to create a bucket with erlcloud, I 
>> get an error with:
>> 
>> {{aws\_error,{http\_error,405,[],
>> "xml version=\"1.0\" 
> encoding=\"UTF-8\"?>`MethodNotAllowed`The 
>> specified method is not allowed against this 
>> resource./buckets12345”}}
>> 
>> Does anyone have any idea’s why this might be so?
>> 
>> Thanks,
>> Lee
>> 
>> 
>> 
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> 
> 
> 
> -- 
> Turning and turning in the widening gyre
> The falcon cannot hear the falconer
> Things fall apart; the center cannot hold
> Mere anarchy is loosed upon the world
> 
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

