---
title: "Re: putObjectPolicy fails due to wrong Content-Type"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-03-13T10:39:36-0700
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15896"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15893"
author_name: "Matthew Brender"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-03-13T10:39:36-0700
---


Hi Patrick,

You'll need to investigate whether you can define a content type through
the SDK. The use of application/octet-stream is defined as "arbitrary
binary data" in RFC 2046 as explained well here [1]. I'm not sure if you
have the ability to define the content type and have not done so or whether
the SDK is at fault.

[1]
http://stackoverflow.com/questions/20508788/do-i-need-content-type-application-octet-stream-for-file-download
ᐧ

\*Matt Brender | Developer Advocacy Lead\*
Basho Technologies
t: @mjbrender 
c: +1 617.817.3195

On Fri, Mar 13, 2015 at 10:52 AM, Patrick F. Marques <
patrickfmarq...@gmail.com> wrote:

> Just the link to the issue https://github.com/basho/riak\_cs/issues/1091
>
> @Mathew do you know if AWS NodeJS SDK is doing it wrong so I can also open
> an issue on amazon repo?
>
> On Fri, Mar 13, 2015 at 2:41 PM, Matthew Brender 
> wrote:
>
>> Hi Patrick,
>>
>> I'm glad you figured out the root cause here. You bring up a great
>> opportunity to improve on error responses too. Please open a GitHub issue
>> for this and any similar observations so PM can keep track of it.
>>
>> Thanks,
>> Matt
>>
>> ᐧ
>>
>> \*Matt Brender | Developer Advocacy Lead\*
>> Basho Technologies
>> t: @mjbrender 
>>
>>
>> On Wed, Mar 11, 2015 at 2:32 PM, Patrick F. Marques <
>> patrickfmarq...@gmail.com> wrote:
>>
>>> Hi,
>>>
>>> Hi, I'm trying to use node-aws-sdk to set bucket policies but the SDK
>>> sends the request with the wrong Content-Type, "application/octet-stream".
>>> I'm not sure if there is something wrong on my side or if AWS S3 also
>>> supports this since it is its SDK.
>>>
>>> To find the problem I was digging in the SDK code because the server
>>> response is just a 500 Internal Server Error. It could be nice to return at
>>> least something like "Unaccepted Content-Type in request".
>>>
>>> Regards,
>>> Patrick Marques
>>>
>>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>>> riak-users mailing list
>>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>>
>>>
>>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

