---
title: "Re: Riak Search 2.0"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-03-21T23:48:20-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13880"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13873"
author_name: "Alexander Sicular"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-03-21T23:48:20-07:00
---


You need to install jsonpp, https://github.com/jmhodges/jsonpp. You could also 
pipe to python which is probably already on your system, 
http://stackoverflow.com/questions/352098/how-can-i-pretty-print-json.

-Alexander Sicular

@siculars

On Mar 21, 2014, at 9:11 PM, Sapre, Meghna A  wrote:

> Okay I followed the exact steps on here, with the same example for testing 
> purpose.
> The search\_index famous shows up in the bucket properties.
> But when I do :
> curl "$RIAK\_HOST/search/famous?wt=json&q=name\_s:Lion\*" | jsonpp
> 
> I get:
> sh.exe": jsonpp: command not found
> % Total % Received % Xferd Average Speed Time Time Time 
> Current
> Dload Upload Total Spent Left Speed
> 100 193 100 193 0 0 12062 0 --:--:-- --:--:-- --:--:-- 12062
> (23) Failed writing body
> 
> I fixed that by using :
> $ curl "$RIAK\_HOST/search/famous?wt=json&q=name\_s:lion\*" | iconv -f 
> windows-1251
> Which gives me:
> % Total % Received % Xferd Average Speed Time Time Time 
> Current
> Dload Upload Total Spent Left Speed
> 100 193 100 193 0 0 12062 0 --:--:-- --:--:-- --:--:-- 12062
> 404 Not FoundNot Found
=========

The 
> requested document was not found on this 
> server.

---

mochiweb+webmachine web server


> 
> What am I still missing?
> 
> Thank you all for your help.
> Meghna
> 
> From: Eric Redmond [mailto:eredm...@basho.com] 
> Sent: Friday, March 21, 2014 9:25 AM
> To: Sapre, Meghna A
> Cc: Michael Dillon; riak-users@lists.basho.com
> Subject: Re: Riak Search 2.0
> 
> Yes, you enable riak search 2.0 by setting search=on.
> 
> There's a lot of useful information in the search documentation.
> 
> http://docs.basho.com/riak/2.0.0pre11/dev/using/search/
> 
> Eric
> 
> 
> On Mar 21, 2014, at 9:21 AM, "Sapre, Meghna A"  
> wrote:
> 
> 
> Thanks, Riak version gives me 2.0.0pre11.
> I changed the riak.conf for setting storage backend=leveldb and search=on.
> I don’t see a separate setting for yokozuna, should it be there?
> I was under the assumption (from reading the docs) that 2.0 comes with 
> yokozuna, is that the case, or is it something I need to install separately?
> 
> Thanks,
> Meghna
> 
> 
> From: Eric Redmond [mailto:eredm...@basho.com] 
> Sent: Friday, March 21, 2014 8:53 AM
> To: Sapre, Meghna A
> Cc: Michael Dillon; riak-users@lists.basho.com
> Subject: Re: Riak Search 2.0
> 
> Searching that version list is not generally useful if you just want the 
> version of the Riak node you're running. Try running "riak version".
> 
> As for "Riak Search 2.0", the project that makes it work is called "yokozuna".
> 
> Eric
> 
> 
> On Mar 20, 2014, at 5:24 PM, "Sapre, Meghna A"  
> wrote:
> 
> 
> 
> Thanks, seems to be a mix. Riak\_search\_version is ‘1.4.1-19’, is there 2.0 
> version for this? If so, how do I get it?
> 
> Thanks,
> Meghna
> 
> From: Michael Dillon [mailto:mdillon...@pagefreezer.com] 
> Sent: Thursday, March 20, 2014 4:25 PM
> To: Sapre, Meghna A
> Subject: Re: Riak Search 2.0
> 
> Try using riak-admin status |grep version |less
> 
> and you will see that there are lots of components at different version 
> levels. I am running 2.0pre11 and have 1.4.2-456-ge1f5d39 for the kv 
> component.
> 
> riak is not one application. It is a suite of applications that work together 
> to provide and overall service.
> 
> 
> On Thu, Mar 20, 2014 at 2:28 PM, Sapre, Meghna A  
> wrote:
> Hi all,
> I recently inherited a Riak dB, so my questions are probably very basic.
> The ones I ask are the ones I couldn't find answers to in the docs or online.
> 
> 1. When I run 'riak-admin status | grep riak\_kv\_version', it shows 'riak 
> 1.4.2'.
> The person who had originally done the installation said it was the 2.0 
> pre-release version, am I checking the right thing?
> 
> 
> Thanks,
> Meghna
> 
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> 
> 
> 
> --
> Michael Dillon - Senior Software Engineer
> PageFreezer.com
> #200 - 311 Water Street
> Vancouver, BC V6B 1B8
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> 
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

