---
title: "Re: Yokozuna 0.8.0 release on omnios - no Yokozuna, no Riak Control"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-08-15T13:12:31-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12050"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12042"
author_name: "Chris Meiklejohn"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-08-15T13:12:31-07:00
---


Hi Dave,

I just built Yokozuna 0.8.0 from the packages available, and noticed some
behavior which might be related. Because the Yokozuna OTP application
starts before Riak Control and it's dependencies, there is a short period
where Riak Control will be unavailable. Can you try the following:

1. Start riak via 'riak console'.
2. Wait until you see the something similar to the following: '13:06:08.553
[info] Application riak\_control started on node 'dev1@127.0.0.1'
3. Try accessing Riak Control.

- Chris



On Wed, Aug 14, 2013 at 4:02 PM, Dave Martorana  wrote:

> Also, not that this makes any difference, but I noticed that
> http://localhost:8098/stats when in master has a "disks" entry in the
> dictionary while the 0.8.0 Yokozuna build is missing that dictionary entry
> from stats. Other than that, everything looks similar.
>
> Dave
>
>
> On Wed, Aug 14, 2013 at 6:58 PM, Dave Martorana  wrote:
>
>> Here is my build (make) log
>>
>> https://gist.github.com/themartorana/6e9f8e49a50b70f56333
>>
>> and "make rel" log
>>
>> https://gist.github.com/themartorana/13dcb72306c9ab880c9f
>>
>> using the 0.8.0 .tar.gz download of Yokozuna.
>>
>> Thanks,
>>
>> Dave
>>
>>
>> On Wed, Aug 14, 2013 at 6:54 PM, Dave Martorana wrote:
>>
>>> Hi Chris,
>>>
>>> I've built from the "official" Yokozuna 0.8.0 download, as well
>>> as rz-yz-merge-1.4.0 and rz-yz-merge-master branches off of the riak repo.
>>>
>>> When I build from master, Riak Control works fine.
>>>
>>> Thanks!
>>>
>>> Dave
>>>
>>>
>>> On Wed, Aug 14, 2013 at 6:52 PM, Christopher Meiklejohn <
>>> cmeiklej...@basho.com> wrote:
>>>
>>>> Hi Dave,
>>>>
>>>> Can you provide the tag, or SHA, that you've built Riak from?
>>>>
>>>> - Chris
>>>>
>>>> --
>>>> Christopher Meiklejohn
>>>> Software Engineer
>>>> Basho Technologies, Inc.
>>>>
>>>>
>>>>
>>>> On Wednesday, August 14, 2013 at 3:45 PM, Dave Martorana wrote:
>>>>
>>>> > Hi all,
>>>> >
>>>> > I have Riak building on omnios, with Erlang R15B02, and Oracle JDK
>>>> 1.7.0\_25.
>>>> >
>>>> > Everything appears to be building just fine. However... even though I
>>>> have Yokozuna and Riak Control enabled in my app.config, neither are able
>>>> to be used or - it seems - start up. I can confirm that kv is working fine.
>>>> >
>>>> > app.config: https://gist.github.com/themartorana/eb503f1d7fca798fc6c3
>>>> > console.log:
>>>> https://gist.github.com/themartorana/7c517c0ba5549c35540a
>>>> >
>>>> > Oddly, console.log doesn't show any mention of Riak Control. It does
>>>> show the startup line for Solr at the end. However, the webapp only has the
>>>> following links:
>>>> >
>>>> > riak\_kv\_wm\_buckets
>>>> > riak\_kv\_wm\_buckets
>>>> > riak\_kv\_wm\_counter
>>>> > riak\_kv\_wm\_index
>>>> > riak\_kv\_wm\_keylist
>>>> > riak\_kv\_wm\_link\_walker
>>>> > riak\_kv\_wm\_link\_walker
>>>> > riak\_kv\_wm\_mapred
>>>> > riak\_kv\_wm\_object
>>>> > riak\_kv\_wm\_object
>>>> > riak\_kv\_wm\_ping
>>>> > riak\_kv\_wm\_props
>>>> > riak\_kv\_wm\_stats
>>>> >
>>>> > There is no admin/control, and no yz. Any attempt to link to /yz/\* or
>>>> /admin results in a 404.
>>>> >
>>>> > I'm at a bit of a loss. There is nothing in error.log or crash.log.
>>>> yokozuna.jar builds fine. Riak Control appears to be built fine.
>>>> >
>>>> > Any thoughts?
>>>> >
>>>> > Cheers,
>>>> >
>>>> > Dave
>>>> >
>>>> > P.S. - I have also built the git rz-yz-merge-1.4.0 branch of the riak
>>>> repo on github just to be sure. Same result. Building Riak from master -
>>>> while obviously not having Yokozuna - does have Riak Control enabled.
>>>> Thanks!
>>>> > \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>>>> > riak-users mailing list
>>>> > riak-users@lists.basho.com (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
>>>> > http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>>>
>>>>
>>>>
>>>>
>>>
>>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

