---
title: "Re: [ANN] Yokozuna 0.7.0"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-07-01T10:10:24-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11365"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg11364"
author_name: "Jeremiah Peschka"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-07-01T10:10:24-07:00
---


You got it. After pushing 1.4 out the door in a few days, we're considering
adding in support for switching out Riak Search for Yokozuna.

Your use of cURL (the most full featured Riak client EVAR™) made me curious
whether or not there was support for PBC yet within your yokozuna code.
I'll hit you up directly should I run into any weirdness.

---
Jeremiah Peschka - Founder, Brent Ozar Unlimited
MCITP: SQL Server 2008, MVP
Cloudera Certified Developer for Apache Hadoop


On Mon, Jul 1, 2013 at 9:50 AM, Ryan Zezeski  wrote:

> Yokozuna supports protobuff already. It uses the same protocol as current
> Riak Search so it is currently limited to that feature set. It should
> "just work". However, currently, if both Riak Search and Yokozuna are
> enabled then Riak Search will handle all queries.
>
> Are you asking in regards to CorrugatedIron by chance?
>
> -Z
>
>
> On Mon, Jul 1, 2013 at 12:29 PM, Jeremiah Peschka <
> jeremiah.pesc...@gmail.com> wrote:
>
>> What level of PBC integration can we expect from Yokozuna? Is that
>> developed but not documented or is that a TBA feature?
>>
>> ---
>> Jeremiah Peschka - Founder, Brent Ozar Unlimited
>> MCITP: SQL Server 2008, MVP
>> Cloudera Certified Developer for Apache Hadoop
>>
>>
>> On Mon, Jul 1, 2013 at 8:46 AM, Ryan Zezeski  wrote:
>>
>>> Riak Users,
>>>
>>> Today I'm excited to bring you the 0.7.0 release of Yokozuna. It
>>> includes some new features such as an upgrade to Solr 4.3.0, isolation of
>>> index failures, one-to-many index-to-buckets relationship, and map-reduce
>>> support. There is also a performance improvement in index throughput.
>>> Along with several bug fixes. See the release notes for more detail.
>>>
>>> https://github.com/basho/yokozuna/blob/master/docs/RELEASE\_NOTES.md#070
>>>
>>> Once again I have forgone the EC2 AMI. Only a source package is
>>> available. You can find instructions for installing on the INSTALL page.
>>>
>>> https://github.com/basho/yokozuna/blob/master/docs/INSTALL.md
>>>
>>> For those that have been using Yokozuna. The one-to-many change is a
>>> breaking change. Creating an index no longer implicitly indexes the bucket
>>> with the same name. Two steps must be performed. FIrst you create the
>>> index as before. Second you add a bucket property 'yz\_index' whose value
>>> is the name of the index you wish to index that bucket under. There is an
>>> example in the README.
>>>
>>> https://github.com/basho/yokozuna#creating-an-index
>>>
>>> -Z
>>>
>>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>>> riak-users mailing list
>>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>>
>>>
>>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

