---
title: "Re: Riak KV evolution"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2016-10-04T07:53:03-0700
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg17685"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg17684"
author_name: "Ricardo Mayerhofer"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2016-10-04T07:53:03-0700
---


Thanks for your response Charlie! Riak KV is a great product, but as any
other product it must evolve to keep ahead of its competitors.

Glad to hear that improvements are coming :)

On Tue, Oct 4, 2016 at 10:18 AM, Charlie Voiselle 
wrote:

> Ricardo:
>
> Thank you for your question, and I want to reassure you that Riak KV is
> still very much under active development. Work that is being done in the
> Riak TS codebase is being used to improve Riak KV where it applies. Riak KV
> 2.2 is coming soon and will include these new features:
>
> - Global Object TTL in eLevelDB
> - LZ4 Compression in eLevelDB
> - Debian 8 and Ubuntu 16 support
> - Switches to disable certain operations in Riak (Key Listing, 2i,
> Search)
> - HyperLogLog Data Type
>
> We have also been working to enhance performance and pay-down technical
> debt in the product. Some examples of this are:
>
> - Inconsistent hashing of equivalent objects with AAE
> - Riak Search performance optimizations
> - Upgrading Riak Search's internal Solr version to 4.10.4
>
> As to the future, while we don't provide public roadmaps, some of the
> themes coming in Riak will be:
>
> - Advanced data lifecycle management
> - Enhancements to Multi-data Center Replication
>
> I sincerely appreciate your feedback.
>
> Regards,
> Charlie Voiselle
> Product Manager, Riak KV and Clients
>
>
> On Oct 3, 2016, at 1:34 PM, Ricardo Mayerhofer 
> wrote:
>
> Hi everyone,
> Despite seeing new components being added to Basho data solutions, which
> is great (e.g. Riak TS) I wonder about Riak KV evolution.
>
> Since 2013 there's no major release of Riak KV and not many features were
> added since then. Is Riak KV still a priority to Basho?
>
> Some features that I miss:
>
> - TTL per bucket or per key,
> - Secondary index in Bitcask or TTL in LevelDB.
> - Be able to drop an entire bucket.
>
> Is there a Roadmap of Riak KV or a list of features coming?
>
> --
> Ricardo Mayerhofer
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
>


-- 
Ricardo Mayerhofer
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

