---
title: "[ANN] Riak KV 2.2.3 is now available"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2017-04-03T09:27:24-0700
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg18118"
author_name: "Charlie Voiselle"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2017-04-03T09:27:24-0700
---


Today we are pleased to release Riak KV 2.2.3. Riak KV 2.2.3 is the latest 
bug-fix package for our current feature release, and continues Basho’s 
commitment to our customers and community to develop and deliver a highly 
resilient, high-performance, key-value database.

In fixing a riak and riak-admin issue 
, we inadvertently used a 
Bash-specific script variable ($RANDOM), causing the riak attach and riak top 
commands to fail on Ubuntu when /bin/sh is aliased to Dash.

We opted to release a full bugfix version because of a small shell script bug 
that could impact all platforms; there is no impact to the operation and data 
in the riak cluster. These errors could cause certain riak-admin and riak 
commands to fail to start.
This bugfix removes the use of $RANDOM, allowing all riak and riak-admin 
commands to function properly in Dash. Information about the specific fixes in 
this release can be found in the release notes[1].

Downloading Riak KV 2.2.3

Open Source users can download packages from the Downloads page[2].
Riak KV Enterprise customers can download Riak KV from your Zendesk page (valid 
Basho Zendesk account is required). 
If you run Riak KV on AWS, you can also update to using the latest AMI.
As always, we would like to hear your feedback, suggestions or bug reports. 

Best regards,
Charlie Voiselle
Senior Product Manager - Riak KV, Basho Technologies
@angrycub 

[issue] - https://github.com/basho/node\_package/pull/210 

[1] - http://docs.basho.com/riak/kv/2.2.3/release-notes/ 

[2] - http://docs.basho.com/riak/kv/2.2.3/downloads/ 
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

