---
title: "RE: Getting basho_bench to work."
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-03-21T00:08:30-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10527"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg10514"
author_name: "Kevin Burton"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-03-21T00:08:30-07:00
---


I have been physically to each node and the process is running. I can get a
list of the members of the cluster and it identifies each member by its
name. 

================================= Membership
==================================

Status Ring Pending Node

----------------------------------------------------------------------------
---

valid 25.0% -- 'riak@172.16.33.107'

valid 25.0% -- 'riak@172.16.33.138'

valid 25.0% -- 'riak@172.16.33.221'

valid 25.0% -- 'riak@172.16.34.56'

----------------------------------------------------------------------------
---

Valid:4 / Leaving:0 / Exiting:0 / Joining:0 / Down:0

 

These are the names in the config:

 

{nodes, ['riak@172.16.33.107', 

 'riak@172.16.33.138', 

 'riak@172.16.33.221',

 'riak@172.16.34.56']}.

 

 

From: Eric Redmond [mailto:eredm...@basho.com] 
Sent: Wednesday, March 20, 2013 6:04 PM
To: Kevin Burton
Cc: riak-users@lists.basho.com
Subject: Re: Getting basho\_bench to work.

 

Correction, perhaps the node is not running, or the vm.args `-name` does not
match.

 

On Mar 20, 2013, at 4:00 PM, Eric Redmond  wrote:





You are trying to start a new Erlang node, but another node with the same
name is already running.

 

Make sure no other riak beam processes.

 

On Mar 20, 2013, at 2:41 PM, Kevin Burton  wrote:





Now I cannot get it going again. I seem to always get the error:

 

16:38:10.032 [info] Protocol: "inet\_tcp": register error:
{{badmatch,{error,econnrefused}},[{inet\_tcp\_dist,listen,1,[{file,"inet\_tcp\_d
ist.erl"},{line,70}]},{net\_kernel,start\_protos,4,[{file,"net\_kernel.erl"},{l
ine,1314}]},{net\_kernel,start\_protos,3,[{file,"net\_kernel.erl"},{line,1307}]
},{net\_kernel,init\_node,2,[{file,"net\_kernel.erl"},{line,1197}]},{net\_kernel
,init,1,[{file,"net\_kernel.erl"},{line,357}]},{gen\_server,init\_it,6,[{file,"
gen\_server.erl"},{line,304}]},{proc\_lib,init\_p\_do\_apply,3,[{file,"proc\_lib.e
rl"},{line,227}]}]}

 

16:38:10.033 [error] Failed to start net\_kernel for
basho\_bench\_measurement\_erlangvm:
{shutdown,{child,undefined,net\_sup\_dynamic,{erl\_distribution,start\_link,[['

basho\_bench@127.0.0.1']]},permanent,1000,supervisor,[erl\_distribution]}}

 

 

 

From: Dan Reverri [mailto:d...@basho.com  ] 
Sent: Wednesday, March 20, 2013 3:47 PM
To: Kevin Burton
Cc: Mark Phillips; riak-users@lists.basho.com
Subject: Re: Getting basho\_bench to work.

 

Hi Kevin,

 

You've specified 3 workers in your config:

{concurrent, 3}.

 

Test results are stored in CSV files located in timestamped directories
under a local "test" directory. The CSV files can be used to generate graphs
using R. More information can be found here:

 

http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/cookbooks/Benchmarking/#Generating-Benchma
rk-Graphs

 

 




Daniel Reverri
Client Architect
Basho Technologies, Inc.
  d...@basho.com

 

On Wed, Mar 20, 2013 at 1:39 PM, Kevin Burton <
 rkevinbur...@charter.net> wrote:

I got rid of the "not enough results . . ." messages by adding
{enforce\_keyrange, 1000}. To the configuration. But this leaves two
questions:

 

1) I see messages like:

 

15:27:06.175 [info] Using http target "172.16.33.221":8098 for worker 1

15:27:06.175 [info] Using pb target "172.16.33.221":8087 for worker 1

 

Even though I listed 4 nodes I only see worker type messages for up to 3. I
was expecting to see worker message for worker 4 but it is not there

 

2) At the end I see:

 

15:27:07.195 [info] Application basho\_bench started on node '
 basho\_bench@127.0.0.1'

15:28:08.214 [info] No Errors.

15:28:08.219 [info] Application basho\_bench exited with reason: stopped

15:28:08.223 [info] Test completed after 1 mins.

 

Shouldn't I see some kind of results? I only see that it ran with no errors.
Are the results of the run put somewhere else?

 

From: Kevin Burton [mailto: 
rkevinbur...@charter.net] 
Sent: Wednesday, March 20, 2013 2:29 PM
To: 'Dan Reverri'
Cc: 'Mark Phillips'; ' 
riak-users@lists.basho.com'
Subject: RE: Getting basho\_bench to work.

 

This is a major step forward. It actually is doing something. Thank you. Now
the output is littered with messages like 'not enough results . . . ',
instead of results. Ideas?

 

From: Dan Reverri [  mailto:d...@basho.com] 
Sent: Wednesday, March 20, 2013 2:17 PM
To: Kevin Burton
Cc: Mark Phillips; 
riak-users@lists.basho.com


Subject: Re: Getting basho\_bench to work.

 

Actually, I think the config option needs to be:

 

"{mynode, ['  basho\_bench@127.0.0.1']}."




Daniel Reverri
Client Architect
Basho Technologies, Inc.
  d...@basho.com

 

On Wed, Mar 20, 2013 at 12:12 PM, Kevin Burton <
 rkevinbur...@charter.net> wrote:

I am not sure what 'freenode' is. But I have some time now.


-----Original Message-----
From: Mark Phillips [mailto:  m...@basho.com]
Sent: Wednesday, March 20, 2013 1:57 PM
To: Kevin Burton

 

Not enough results for query\_pb: 904/913/[]

Not enough results for query\_http: 100/109/[<<"107">>]

Not enough results for query\_http: 167/176/[<<"172">>,<<"168">>]

Not enough results for query\_http: 614/623/[]

Not enough results for query\_pb: 309/318/[]

Not enough results for query\_pb: 605/614/[]

Not enough results for query\_pb: 779/788/[]

Not enough results for query\_http: 872/881/[<<"876">>]

Not enough results for query\_mr: 452/461/[[<<"mybucket">>,<<"460">>]]

Not enough results for query\_http: 141/150/[<<"145">>]

Not enough results for query\_pb: 853/862/[]

Not enough results for query\_mr: 922/931/[[<<"mybucket">>,<<"927">>]]

Not enough results for query\_http: 880/889/[<<"889">>]

Not enough results for query\_mr: 365/374/[[<<"mybucket">>,<<"374">>]]

Not enough results for query\_http: 194/203/[<<"198">>]

Not enough results for query\_mr: 621/630/[[<<"mybucket">>,<<"626">>]]

Not enough results for query\_pb: 952/961/[]

Not enough results for query\_http: 384/393/[<<"392">>]

Not enough results for query\_http: 371/380/[<<"374">>]

Not enough results for query\_pb: 359/368/[[<<"mybucket">>,<<"363">>],

 [<<"mybucket">>,<<"359">>]]

 

Cc: Roberto Aloi; 
riak-users@lists.basho.com


Subject: Re: Getting basho\_bench to work.

Hey Kevin,

Any chance you can pop into #riak on freenode? We can do this
trouble-shooting in real time. :)

Mark

On Wed, Mar 20, 2013 at 11:42 AM, Kevin Burton <
 rkevinbur...@charter.net>
wrote:
> So your theory is the the 'check the configuration' is not from
> basho\_bench but from erlang. What configuration needs to change? The
> link mentions running a deamon that maps long names to short names. Do
> I need that? As far as I can tell I am using the "standard" naming
> convetion (  r...@xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx). Do you
think this is a 'long name'?
>
>
>
> From: Roberto Aloi [mailto:  prof...@gmail.com]
> Sent: Wednesday, March 20, 2013 1:16 PM
> To: Kevin Burton
> Cc:  riak-users@lists.basho.com
>
>
> Subject: Re: Getting basho\_bench to work.
>
>
>
> Hi,
>
>
>
> At a glance, it looks like the basho\_bench node couldn't start
> correctly with a longname.
>
> How are you starting basho\_bench?
>
>
>
> This issue could be due to a misconfiguration in the hostname for your
> machine.
>
> How do your /etc/hosts and /etc/hostname look like?
>
>
>
> For information about shortnames and longnames in Erlang:
>
>
>
> 
http://www.snookles.com/erlang-docs/R15B03/doc/reference\_manual/distri
> buted.html
>
>
>
>
>
> On Wed, Mar 20, 2013 at 6:36 PM, Kevin Burton
> <  rkevinbur...@charter.net>
> wrote:
>
> I reiterate the request to see what is wrong with my basho\_bench
> configuration. I have attached the configuration as well as the
> output. Any ideas as to what is wrong would be greatly appreciated. I
> basically used the templates in the 'examples' folder but apparently
> there is something wrong.
>
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
>  riak-users@lists.basho.com
> 
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
>
>
>
> --
> Roberto Aloi
> ---
> Website:  http://roberto-aloi.com
> Twitter: @robertoaloi
>
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
>  riak-users@lists.basho.com
> 
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
  riak-users@lists.basho.com
 
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

 

 

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

 

 

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

