---
title: "Re: Riak VS Graph Databases"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-08-29T08:25:20-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14814"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14813"
author_name: "Alex De la rosa"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-08-29T08:25:20-07:00
---


Yeah, I know it might be hard to only use Riak, but I want to try see how
much I can do with only 1 system. If later I have to add more complexity to
the system, so be it :) but i will squeeze my brain as much as i can to
model the data in a way not much relationships may be required and probably
Riak might be enough... but we will see :)

Thanks!
Alex


On Fri, Aug 29, 2014 at 5:20 PM, Guido Medina 
wrote:

> In a dream world my friend, we have Riak, PostgreSQL and Solr and might
> have to include a sort of query-able Big Table implementation in the future
> like Cassandra (we will try to avoid this last thing until we can't)
>
> Your Graph DB will have trade off versus KV fetch in general, I don't
> think you have the tools you need in Riak to find the relationships per
> category nor the Riak advantages to do quick KV operations (data storage
> wise) nor cluster replication.
>
> It won't be that simple without many trade off to build an homogeneous
> system.
>
> Guido.
>
>
> On 29/08/14 16:06, Alex De la rosa wrote:
>
> Hi Guido,
>
> This could be a solution; although I would try to do it in an
> homogeneous system where only one NoSQL DB would be around if possible :)
>
> Thanks!
> Alex
>
>
> On Fri, Aug 29, 2014 at 5:03 PM, Guido Medina 
> wrote:
>
>> Maybe what you are looking for is a combination of both, say, your KV
>> data in Riak with a combination of background processes able to build the
>> necessary searching graphs in Neo4J, in such way your data is secure in a
>> Riak cluster and searchable on several Neo4J servers.
>>
>> That's just an idea which might be not do-able, hope it helps,
>>
>> Guido.
>>
>>
>> On 29/08/14 15:54, Alex De la rosa wrote:
>>
>> Hi there,
>>
>> For some time already I have in mind building a kind of social network
>> myself. Is pretty ambitious project although it doesn't have in mind to be
>> a new facebook; but still data will be quite big and complex.
>>
>> I like Riak and I had been following since version 0.14, and new
>> additions in Riak 2.0 seem to help a lot in how to model the data; although
>> relationships will be unavoidable.
>>
>> Some friends suggested me to use Graph Databases instead. How would
>> Riak compare to Graph Databases for this use case? Is it doable to create a
>> social network entirely from Riak? Or may not be recommended?
>>
>> Thanks!
>> Alex
>>
>>
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing 
>> listriak-users@lists.basho.comhttp://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>
>>
>>
>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

