---
title: "CRDT on Riak 2.0"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-03-04T06:37:49-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13742"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13673"
author_name: "EmiNarcissus"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-03-04T06:37:49-08:00
---


Hi,

I’m now porting the riak 2.0 driver for twisted, it works beautifully now with 
what Yokozuna provides, also have a great back-port ability,really appreciate 
everything what this team have brought us XD. But because it still in lacks of 
document, I must read the implementation both from ruby and riakc-erl repo to 
get it started(erlang is okay for me, but I’m not quite familiar with 
ruby,sadly looks like only ruby’s client implementation is throughly right 
now). 

So here is my question on the datatype implementation on CRDT system.

From the code I can tell , fetch\_dt/update\_dt/modify\_dt is what have been 
exposed from the pbc interface. Now I’m more focused on Set object, so each 
time client will fetch the whole set(fetch\_dt) from the server and build the 
set on the local end, and maintain a add/remove operation list to send to the 
server when user does a update/add/remove action.

But I’m a little bit confused here, like what redis provides, a set have a 
ismember function is being done on the server instead of fetch/test manner. 
Does this available for Riak 2.0 Set datatype(just like what Riak1.4 Counter 
object provided, it will do the operation on the server side,MISMEMBER a b, it 
will either return True/False). Currently I only can see add/update/delete 
operation on pbc proto file, and don’t have something alike, is that in a Todo 
list ? or will not implement at all(I will reconsider how the data should be 
structured if so). This feature will be really helpful when the dataset is big 
enough(like more than 10k values in it.)


Best,
Tim Lee



\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

