---
title: "Re: Cleaning old indexes"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-12-11T10:56:21-0800
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15354"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15353"
author_name: "Geoff Garbers"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-12-11T10:56:21-0800
---


Hey Luke.

There are actually some legacy items within Riak that still use the global
search index - so we haven't yet had a need to remove it. It's good to know
that there is a way to remove it though.

And just a side question - I take it you're able to remove a search index
even if there are still objects referencing it, correct?

Regards,
Geoff


Geoffrey Garbers
Senior Developer

[image: Total Send] 

Cell: +27 (0)766 476 920
Skype: geoff.garbers
ge...@totalsend.com
www.totalsend.com

 +1 347-431-0494 
 +44 (0)203 519 1082 
 +61 (0)3 9111 5760 
 +27 (0)21 200 6981 

On Thu, Dec 11, 2014 at 8:28 PM, Luke Bakken  wrote:

> Hi Geoff,
>
> Are you having issues removing the old "global" index? You should be
> able to delete it this way:
>
> curl -XDELETE riak-host:8098/search/index/global
>
> > Is it safe to mess with anything within the Solr admin interface (is
> there a possibility of corruption from Riak -> Solr, or vice versa)?
>
> It's best to leave things alone in production as Riak expects to be
> the sole source of control for Solr
>
> --
> Luke Bakken
> Engineer / CSE
> lbak...@basho.com
>
>
> On Tue, Nov 18, 2014 at 3:36 AM, Geoff Garbers 
> wrote:
> > Hey all.
> >
> > When our company started out with Riak, there were some choices made with
> > regards to indexing that are now coming back to bite us. Currently,
> > everything in our Riak cluster is being indexed (dynamicField \* indexed
> as
> > text\_general).
> >
> > We've learnt a lot about Riak and Solr since then, and we're in the
> process
> > now of trying to fix this; indexing the fields we need with the correct
> data
> > type.
> >
> > Previously, we had a single search index (called "global") - and
> everything
> > was indexed under this. This is now split out into separate indexes
> > ("contacts", "lists", "messages", etc); and I've tried to re-index
> > everything - but I don't seem to be able to get rid of the old indexes.
> >
> > There are a few things I've tried; and they don't seem to help:
> >
> > 1. Streaming all keys in all buckets, fetching the object, and then
> putting
> > the object.
> > 2. Streaming all keys in all buckets, fetching the object, deleting the
> > object, and then putting the object back with the same key.
> > 2. Unloading the core in the Solr admin interface (it seems like it gets
> > re-populated by Riak again).
> >
> > In summary, this is what I'm struggling to understand:
> >
> > 1. Is it safe to mess with anything within the Solr admin interface (is
> > there a possibility of corruption from Riak -> Solr, or vice versa)?
> > 2. How do I go about cleaning out old index data, versus simply (what
> seems
> > to be) creating new index data, without clearing out the old data?
> >
> > Any help will really be appreciated!
> >
> > Thanks,
> > Geoff
> >
> > \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> > riak-users mailing list
> > riak-users@lists.basho.com
> > http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> >
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

