---
title: "Re: Yokozuna unpredictable result count"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-02-19T09:12:08-0800
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15750"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15749"
author_name: "Cezary Kosko"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-02-19T09:12:08-0800
---


I can't recall right now, but it's safe to assume I did delete it.

As for nodes, I have added one, nothing more.

Kind regards,
Cezary

2015-02-19 18:01 GMT+01:00 Zeeshan Lakhani :

> So, AAE is running.
>
> Again, did you delete the single object at some point? Trying to see if
> this is related to you hitting a tombstone on queries. Also, when you added
> the object, did you add it and later leave (drop) a node from your cluster?
>
> Thanks.
>
> Zeeshan Lakhani
> programmer |
> software engineer at @basho |
> org. member/founder of @papers\_we\_love |
> twitter => @zeeshanlakhani
>
> On Feb 19, 2015, at 11:53 AM, Cezary Kosko  wrote:
>
> By './data/yz\_anti\_entropy' do you mean '/var/lib/riak/yz\_anti\_entropy' by
> default or './data/yz\_anti\_entropy' inside each index's directory? If the
> former - it's there, the latter - not. riak-admin search aae-status says
> there's been some AAE activity in the past few hours.
>
> Also I called yz\_entropy\_mgr:init([]) inside an attached erlang shell and
> curl-ed the object, it's still the same.
>
> Kind regards,
> Cezary
>
> 2015-02-19 17:27 GMT+01:00 Zeeshan Lakhani :
>
>> Thanks Cezary.
>>
>> Have you deleted this object at some point in your runs? Please make sure
>> AAE is running by checking search’s AAE status, `riak-admin search
>> aae-status`, and that data exists in the correct directory,
>> `./data/yz\_anti\_entropy` (
>> http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/ops/advanced/configs/search/). You may
>> just need to perform a read-repair by performing a fetch of the object
>> itself first, before performing search queries again.
>>
>> Zeeshan Lakhani
>> programmer |
>> software engineer at @basho |
>> org. member/founder of @papers\_we\_love |
>> twitter => @zeeshanlakhani
>>
>> On Feb 19, 2015, at 10:35 AM, Cezary Kosko 
>> wrote:
>>
>> I have the exact same issue with regular http search queries, so I guess
>> I'll just describe that part.
>>
>> I've got a bucket of maps-of-sets, 2 of them are entityId\_set and
>> timestamps\_set. Its search index is called 'job' and it's only this bucket
>> that's indexed.
>>
>> When I run
>> curl
>> "localhost:8098/search/query/job?wt=json&q=entityId\_set:100000000000000000%20AND%20timestamps\_set:%5B1419721530%20TO%201419721539%5D"
>>
>> (that's a query that is supposed to return exactly one result), the
>> numFound field is either 0 or 1, it seems that I get both kinds of result
>> in 10 consecutive requests (and the timeAllowed parameter I wrote about, it
>> doesn't really help).
>>
>> That's the way they're handled in the schema:
>>
>> > stored="false" multiValued="true" />
>> > stored="false" multiValued="true" />
>>
>>
>> Kind regards,
>> Cezary
>>
>> 2015-02-19 16:04 GMT+01:00 Zeeshan Lakhani :
>>
>>> Hello Cezary,
>>>
>>> Firstly, are you able to retrieve your search result consistently when
>>> not using doing a mapreduce job?
>>>
>>> To better help out, can you send a gist of the mapreduce code you’re
>>> running? Thanks.
>>>
>>>
>>> On Feb 18, 2015, at 9:13 PM, Cezary Kosko 
>>> wrote:
>>>
>>> Hi,
>>>
>>> I've got a search index, and I'd like to run mapred job against that
>>> index. The thing is, for a search query that should return exactly one
>>> result, I sometimes (not always, yet not rarely) get none, i.e. the mapred
>>> job returns an empty list instead of, say, a list containing a single
>>> object. Did this only happen some time after uploading the data and then
>>> was consistently giving the right results, I wouldn't object. However, it's
>>> kind of an on-and-off situation - I get proper results, but then for a
>>> brief period of time I don't and so on.
>>>
>>> I've read on a solr doc page that specifying a timeAllowed parameter in
>>> the query can give it longer to gather results and help, but that can't be
>>> specified in a mapred definition, or can it?
>>>
>>> Is there anything else I can look for?
>>>
>>> The data I'm querying is of the CRDT map-of-sets type, should that be of
>>> any relevance.
>>>
>>> Kind regards,
>>> Cezary
>>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>>> riak-users mailing list
>>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>>
>>>
>>>
>>
>>
>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

