---
title: "Re: Node is not running!"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2017-02-22T07:43:44-0800
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg18005"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg18003"
author_name: "Paul Henrich"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2017-02-22T07:43:44-0800
---


Hi Jurgen,

This rings a bell from a recent exchange on the list. Try this:
> Hi David,
> I vaguely remember the same problem from a previous setup I did, a while
> ago now.
> IIRC, the original configured IP gets written to disk on the initial start
> and then the next start fails due to the mis-match.
> Try deleting your data directory and restarting, so this will be like the
> initial startup again.
> //Sean.

http://lists.basho.com/pipermail/riak-users\_lists.basho.com/2017-February/019061.html
 



> On Feb 22, 2017, at 5:34 AM, Jurgen Ramaliu  wrote:
> 
> Hello RIAK,
> 
> I have one problem with riak node configuration. I have install RIAK KV and 
> everything is ok.
> I run riak start on my CentOS 6.5 and it starts ok.
> I have configure file /etc/hosts :
> 
> 127.0.0.1 localhost localhost.localdomain localhost4 localhost4.localdomain4
> ::1 localhost localhost.localdomain localhost6 localhost6.localdomain6
> 192.168.1.10 riak1.mydomain.com  
> riak1
> 
> and this file /etc/sysconfig/network :
> 
> NETWORKING=yes
> HOSTNAME=riak1.mydomain.com 
> 
> But, when i try to do this steps, on this link : 
> http://docs.basho.com/riak/kv/2.2.0/using/running-a-cluster/#configure-the-first-node
> 
> 
> 
> to configure first node, when I change nodename form :
> nodename = riak@127.0.0.1  to nodename = 
> riak@192.168.1.10  , riak doesn't start, I take 
> back this error messages :
> 
> [root@riak1 ~]# riak start
> Node 'riak@192.168.1.10 ' not responding to pings.
> Node 'riak@192.168.1.10 ' not responding to pings.
> Node is not running!
> 
> 
> 
> or nodename = r...@riak1.mydomain.com , riak 
> doesn't start, I take back this error messages :
> 
> [root@riak1 ~]# riak start
> 
> Node 'r...@riak1.mydomain.com ' not 
> responding to pings.
> Node 'r...@riak1.mydomain.com ' not 
> responding to pings.
> Node is not running!
> 
> Can you please tell me how can I resolve this problem?
> 
> Thank you in advance,
> 
> Jurgen
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

