---
title: "Re: Migration from memcachedb to riak"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-07-10T02:01:25-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11433"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg11432"
author_name: "Guido Medina"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-07-10T02:01:25-07:00
---


Well, I rushed my answer before, if you want performance, you probably 
want Bitcask, if you want compression then LevelDB, the following links 
should help you decide better:


http://docs.basho.com/riak/1.2.0/tutorials/choosing-a-backend/Bitcask/
http://docs.basho.com/riak/1.2.0/tutorials/choosing-a-backend/LevelDB/

Or multi, use one as default and then the other for specific buckets:

http://docs.basho.com/riak/1.2.0/tutorials/choosing-a-backend/Multi/

HTH,

Guido.


On 10/07/13 09:53, Guido Medina wrote:
Then you are better off with Bitcask, that will be the fastest in your 
case (no 2i, no searches, no M/R)


HTH,

Guido.

On 10/07/13 09:49, Edgar Veiga wrote:

Hello all!

I have a couple of questions that I would like to address all of you 
guys, in order to start this migration the best as possible.


Context:
- I'm responsible for the migration of a pure key/value store that 
for now is being stored on memcacheDB.

- We're serializing php objects and storing them.
- The total size occupied it's ~2TB.

- The idea it's to migrate this data to a riak cluster with elevelDB 
backend (starting with 6 nodes, 256 partitions. This thing is scaling 
very fast).
- We only need to access the information by key. \*We won't need 
neither map/reduces, searches or secondary indexes\*. It's a pure 
key/value store!


My questions are:
- Do you have any riak fine tunning tip regarding this use case (due 
to the fact that we will only use the key/value capabilities of riak)?
- It's expected that those 2TB would be reduced due to the levelDB 
compression. Do you think we should compress our objects to on the 
client?


Best regards,
Edgar Veiga


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com




\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

