---
title: "Re: Riak Java client not returning deleted sibling"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-10-07T12:14:26-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12532"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12527"
author_name: "Brian Roach"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-10-07T12:14:26-07:00
---


Daniel -

Unfortunately returning the body from a store operation may not
reflect all the replicas (and in the case of a concurrent write on two
different nodes "may not" really means "probably doesn't").

If you do a subsequent fetch after sending both your writes you'll get
back a single vclock with siblings.

Thanks,
- Roach

On Mon, Oct 7, 2013 at 12:37 PM, Daniel Iwan  wrote:
> Hi Brian
>
> Thanks for update.
> I'm using 1.1.3 now and still have some issues sibling related
>
> Two clients are updating the same key.
> Updated is my custom meta field, which should be merged to contain values
> from both clients (set)
> I see both client are doing fetch, resolving sibling (only 1 i.e. no
> siblings), apply mutation (their own values for meta field). After that
> object is converted using fromDomain() in my converter using vclock provided
> Both nodes use vclock
> 6bce61606060cc60ca05521cf385ab3e05053d2dc8604a64cc6365589678fc345f1600
>
> So far so god.
> But the next step is toDomain (which is pare of Store I think since I'm
> using withBody) and looks like each node contains info only about
> it own changes.
> Client one sees vclock
> 6bce61606060cc60ca05521cf385ab3e05053d2dc8604a64ca6365589678fc345f1600
> Client 2 sees vclock
> 6bce61606060ca60ca05521cf385ab3e05053d2dc8604a64ca6365589678fc341f548a4d4adb032ac508945a0e92ca0200
>
> Both of vclocks are different than original vclock given during store, which
> I assume means RIak accepted write.
> Resolve is called on both machines but there is only one sibling.
>
> I guess the fact that I'm changing only meta field should not matter here
> and I should see 2 siblings?
> allow\_multi is of course true and lastWriteWins is false on that bucket
>
> Any help much appreciated
>
>
> Regards
> Daniel
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
> On 4 October 2013 21:41, Brian Roach  wrote:
>>
>> Hey -
>>
>> I'm releasing 1.1.3 and 1.4.2 but it'll take a while for them to get
>> staged at maven central so I can post an "official" release to the
>> mailing list.
>>
>> I've gone ahead and uploaded the jar-with-dependencies to the usual
>> place for you-
>>
>>
>> http://riak-java-client.s3.amazonaws.com/riak-client-1.1.3-jar-with-dependencies.jar
>>
>> It fixes up the DomainBucket stuff and the JSONConverter.
>>
>> Thanks,
>> - Roach
>>
>> On Fri, Oct 4, 2013 at 2:58 AM, Daniel Iwan  wrote:
>> > Thanks Brian for putting fix together so quickly.
>> >
>> > I think I found something else though.
>> > In JSONConverter I don't see vclock being set in toDomain() when
>> > converting
>> > deleted sibling?
>> > That vclock should be used for following delete if I understood it
>> > correctly?
>> >
>> > Also where can I download latest build? I tried
>> >
>> > http://riak-java-client.s3.amazonaws.com/riak-client-1.1.3-jar-with-dependencies.jar
>> > but access is denied
>> >
>> > Cheers
>> > Daniel
>> >
>> >
>> > On 3 October 2013 19:36, Brian Roach  wrote:
>> >>
>> >> On Thu, Oct 3, 2013 at 10:32 AM, Daniel Iwan 
>> >> wrote:
>> >> > Thanks Brian for quick response.
>> >> >
>> >> > As a side question, what is the best way to delete such an object
>> >> > i.e.
>> >> > once
>> >> > I know one of the siblings has 'deleted' flag true because I fetched
>> >> > it?
>> >> > Should I just use DomainBucket.delete(key) without providing any
>> >> > vclock?
>> >> > Would it wipe it from Riak or create yet another sibling?
>> >>
>> >> You should always use vclocks when possible, which in the case it is.
>> >> There are additional issues around doing the delete without a vclock
>> >> and if there's concurrently a store operation occurring.
>> >>
>> >> Ideally you should look at why you're getting that tombstone sibling.
>> >> If it's simply a case of high write concurrency and you're using
>> >> vclocks with your writes, then there's not much you can do except
>> >> resolve it later (without changing how you're using the DB)... but
>> >> usually these things are caused by writes without a vclock.
>> >>
>> >> Thanks,
>> >> - Roach
>> >>
>> >>
>> >>
>> >>
>> >> >
>> >> > Regards
>> >> > Daniel
>> >> >
>> >> >
>> >> > On 3 October 2013 17:20, Brian Roach  wrote:
>> >> >>
>> >> >> Daniel -
>> >> >>
>> >> >> Yeah, that is the case. When the ability to pass fetch/store/delete
>> >> >> meta was added to DomainBucket way back when it appears that was
>> >> >> missed.
>> >> >>
>> >> >> I'll add it and forward-port to 1.4.x as well and cut new jars.
>> >> >> Should
>> >> >> be avail by tomorrow morning at the latest.
>> >> >>
>> >> >> Thanks!
>> >> >> - Roach
>> >> >>
>> >> >> On Thu, Oct 3, 2013 at 9:38 AM, Daniel Iwan 
>> >> >> wrote:
>> >> >> > Hi I'm using Riak 1.3.1 and Java client 1.1.2
>> >> >> >
>> >> >> > Using http and curl I see 4 siblings for an object one of which
>> >> >> > has
>> >> >> > X-Riak-Deleted: true
>> >> >> > but when I'm using Java client with DomainBucket my Converter's
>> >> >> > method
>> >> >> > toDomain is called only 3 times.
>> >> >> >
>> >> >> > I have set the property
>> >> >> >
>> >> >> > builder.returnDeletedVClock(true);
>> >> >> >
>> >> >> > on my DomainBuilder which I keep reusing for all queries and store
>> >> >> > operations (I guess that's good practice btw.?)
>> >> >> >
>> >> >> >
>> >> >> > I run that under debugger and it seems raw client sees 4 siblings
>> >> >> > but
>> >> >> > passes
>> >> >> > over only 3 due to bug (I think) in DomainBucket.fetch() method
>> >> >> > which
>> >> >> > should
>> >> >> > have
>> >> >> >
>> >> >> > if (fetchMeta.hasReturnDeletedVClock()) {
>> >> >> >
>> >> >> >
>> >> >> > so.returnDeletedVClock(fetchMeta.getReturnDeletedVClock());
>> >> >> >
>> >> >> > }
>> >> >> >
>> >> >> > at the end, as store() method has.
>> >> >> >
>> >> >> > Could you confirm or I'm I completely wrong?
>> >> >> >
>> >> >> >
>> >> >> > Regards
>> >> >> >
>> >> >> > Daniel
>> >> >> >
>> >> >> >
>> >> >> > \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> >> >> > riak-users mailing list
>> >> >> > riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> >> >> > http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>> >> >> >
>> >> >
>> >> >
>> >
>> >
>
>

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

