---
title: "Re: RiakKV and RiakS2 co-existing"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-11-09T02:27:06-0800
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16748"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16702"
author_name: "Magnus Kessler"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-11-09T02:27:06-0800
---


On 24 October 2015 at 18:15, Emyr James  wrote:

> Hi,
> I've started to use RiakKV on an 11 node cluster. So far it seems to be
> working reasonably well for my application although I occasionally hit
> Timeouts on inserts and have to keep retrying in my python client.
> I'm interested in giving RiakS2 a trial and given that I already have Riak
> installed on my nodes can I layer RiakS2 on top of my existing Riak cluster
> that I'm using as a key value store or should I run multiple riak instances
> listening on different ports for the 2 differing use cases ?
> Cheers,
> Emyr
>
>
Hi Emyr,

Using one and the same cluster for both Riak-KV and Riak-S2 is not
officially supported by Basho. Riak-S2 uses a specialised backend
configuration and very specific buckets, which a generic KV configuration
may interfere with. So, while technically possible, we recommend not to mix
a KV and an S2 use case within the same cluster.

If you have access to additional computing resources (e.g. cloud
instances), it would be easiest to spin up an entirely separate cluster for
your S2 trial. This avoids having to adjust KV and S2 configuration files
for non-standard ports. You can also spin up a new cluster on the existing
hardware, but please make sure that you change the cookie for the new
cluster to a unique value and that you adjust the ports in use so that they
don't overlap with the default ports.

Regards,

Magnus


>
> --
> The Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute is operated by Genome Research
> Limited, a charity registered in England with number 1021457 and a company
> registered in England with number 2742969, whose registered office is 215
> Euston Road, London, NW1 2BE.
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>



-- 
Magnus Kessler
Client Services Engineer
Basho Technologies Limited

Registered Office - 8 Lincoln’s Inn Fields London WC2A 3BP Reg 07970431
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

