---
title: "Re: rocksdb (fb leveldb fork) as riak backend?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-01-27T17:50:56-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13504"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13502"
author_name: "Matthew Von-Maszewski"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-01-27T17:50:56-08:00
---


Basho's leveldb requirements have lead to different optimizations. Facebook 
has a captive hardware environment and usage case that does not match ours. I 
am not saying their changes are better or worse, only different.

Basho needs:

- multiple databases running simultaneously: 6 to 64
- support for slow solitary SATA drives all the way to rocking' fast FusionIO 
PCI arrays
- fast disaster recovery / repair
- aggressive delete logic to help remove large chunks of deleted data now 
instead of next year
- (and a few things still not unleashed in Riak 2.0)

So our compaction strategy has come a long way: from Google's original single 
thread to a thread pool that can run simultaneous companions on the same 
database as well as other databases. We have a dedicated thread that 
constantly computes the speed of the local array and gradually manipulates each 
write request to prevent Google's designed stall … maximizing total throughput 
for the simultaneous databases while maintaining a constant user experience. 
And in between all that, we have retuned the skip list, the bloom filter, and 
integrated Intel's hardware CRC assembly code.

That is what meets Riak's needs. 

Matthew


On Jan 27, 2014, at 6:05 PM, Alexander Sicular  wrote:

> Hey Basho gang,
> 
> Have you all taken any sort of look at FB's leveldb fork, rocksdb, 
> http://rocksdb.org/? Just watching Dhruba's video it seems like it may be a 
> useful upgrade, 
> https://code.facebook.com/videos/174548089418739/rocksdb-a-high-performance-embedded-key-value-store-for-flash-storage-data-scale/.
> The main talking points seems to be that rocksdb upgrades leveldb such that 
> it is more efficient when storing data more than system ram, has more 
> efficient access patternsto take advantage of ssd's and has a better 
> compaction story.
> 
> Care to share your thoughts?
> 
> Thanks,
> 
> -Alexander Sicular
> 
> @siculars
> 
> 
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

