---
title: "Re: Riak VS Graph Databases"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-08-29T08:14:01-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14811"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14810"
author_name: "Pedro Larroy"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-08-29T08:14:01-07:00
---


Hi Alex

Did you have a look at orientdb, it might fit the need that you describe.

Pedro.
On Aug 29, 2014 5:07 PM, "Alex De la rosa"  wrote:

> Hi Guido,
>
> This could be a solution; although I would try to do it in an homogeneous
> system where only one NoSQL DB would be around if possible :)
>
> Thanks!
> Alex
>
>
> On Fri, Aug 29, 2014 at 5:03 PM, Guido Medina 
> wrote:
>
>> Maybe what you are looking for is a combination of both, say, your KV
>> data in Riak with a combination of background processes able to build the
>> necessary searching graphs in Neo4J, in such way your data is secure in a
>> Riak cluster and searchable on several Neo4J servers.
>>
>> That's just an idea which might be not do-able, hope it helps,
>>
>> Guido.
>>
>>
>> On 29/08/14 15:54, Alex De la rosa wrote:
>>
>> Hi there,
>>
>> For some time already I have in mind building a kind of social network
>> myself. Is pretty ambitious project although it doesn't have in mind to be
>> a new facebook; but still data will be quite big and complex.
>>
>> I like Riak and I had been following since version 0.14, and new
>> additions in Riak 2.0 seem to help a lot in how to model the data; although
>> relationships will be unavoidable.
>>
>> Some friends suggested me to use Graph Databases instead. How would
>> Riak compare to Graph Databases for this use case? Is it doable to create a
>> social network entirely from Riak? Or may not be recommended?
>>
>> Thanks!
>> Alex
>>
>>
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing 
>> listriak-users@lists.basho.comhttp://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>
>>
>>
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

