---
title: "Re: Can I share Riak KV between Riak S2 and direct Riak KV access?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-09-14T19:43:56-0700
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16524"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16516"
author_name: "Kota Uenishi"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-09-14T19:43:56-0700
---


Let's align our definitions of system resources and namespaces. And I
don't think anything is problem.

For namespaces, I meant you shouldn't overwrite Riak S2 data with your
application that is directly writing your data into underlying KV.
This is not Linux kernel namespaces or anything else. Just use
different bucket names and keys. You can also use 'your' bucket types
as S2 is currently using only default bucket type. But this may change
in future as we advance S2 and you should be careful about such future
changes. This is how S2 and KV works - but not officially supported by
the products and that is our assumption.

For system resources that are hard to define. Our intention was both
workloads by S2 and your application uses network and disk bandwidth
affects each other, like one's heavy traffic will affect the other's
performance for sure. Locks, data files and things like that are all
managed by KV process and won't (shouldn't) be broken both S2 and your
application.

Do they match your understanding on namespaces and system resources?

On Mon, Sep 14, 2015 at 1:26 PM, mtakahashi-ivi
 wrote:
> Thanks all,
>
> The problem is not only namespace but also competing system resources,
> right?
> Does it mean competing system resources occurs even if I separate
> namespaces?
>
>
>
>
> --
> View this message in context: 
> http://riak-users.197444.n3.nabble.com/Can-I-share-Riak-KV-between-Riak-S2-and-direct-Riak-KV-access-tp4033432p4033439.html
> Sent from the Riak Users mailing list archive at Nabble.com.
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com



-- 
Kota UENISHI / @kuenishi
Basho Japan KK

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

