---
title: "Re: Bucket properties not updated"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-10-09T13:42:40-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12575"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12574"
author_name: "Daniel Iwan"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-10-09T13:42:40-07:00
---


It does sound similar, although in my case I just create brand new bucket
with allow\_multi=true, which does not seem to
be accepted (although client says it is). I'm not trying to reset bucket
properties, but maybe it's a good test to to that to see i it gets unstuck.

D.


On 9 October 2013 20:42, Jeremiah Peschka wrote:

> Could this be a duplicate of bug 660?
> https://github.com/basho/riak\_kv/issues/660
>
> I can reliably reproduce this on a local 5 node stagedevrel cluster on
> Riak 1.4.2 and develop.
>
> ---
> Jeremiah Peschka - Founder, Brent Ozar Unlimited
> MCITP: SQL Server 2008, MVP
> Cloudera Certified Developer for Apache Hadoop
>
>
> On Wed, Oct 9, 2013 at 12:35 PM, Daniel Iwan wrote:
>
>> Thank for reply.
>>
>> The thing is that bucket never converges. The allow\_mult remains false
>> even several minutes after handoff had finished.
>> I don't know whether it's because properties get overwritten by defaults
>> during gossip or it's because message from client(s) never reaches Riak.
>>
>> This situation is potentially very dangerous for us. As I have no way of
>> checking if allow\_mult has incorrect value (Riak client returns true)
>> it simply means write loss during updates.
>>
>> Is there a way to debug what's happening or check what's in the ring?
>>
>> Regards
>> Daniel Iwan
>>
>>
>>
>> On 9 October 2013 20:08, Joe Caswell  wrote:
>>
>>> Daniel,
>>>
>>> Custom (i.e. non-default) bucket properties are currently stored in
>>> the ring. Once you set a bucket property on one node, the updated ring
>>> must be gossiped to the other nodes. I assume by 'vnode transfer' you mean
>>> handoff. An ownership handoff would also generate changes to the ring
>>> which need to be gossiped, and so could slow the propagation of the bucket
>>> data. If you are setting bucket properties at multiple nodes
>>> simultaneously, there will be additional steps to resolve the change in
>>> order for the ring to converge. If all nodes are online and reachable, the
>>> change should complete very quickly (I would consider 1 second somewhat
>>> slow).
>>>
>>> Joe Caswell
>>>
>>> From: Daniel Iwan 
>>> Date: Wednesday, October 9, 2013 7:39 AM
>>> To: "riak-users@lists.basho.com" 
>>> Subject: Bucket properties not updated
>>>
>>> Hi
>>>
>>> With Java client 1.1.3 and Riak 1.3.1
>>> I'm doing:
>>>
>>> WriteBucket wb =
>>> iclient.createBucket(BUCKET\_NAME).nVal(3).allowSiblings(true);
>>> Bucket b = wb.execute();
>>>
>>> \_logger.fine("Regular bucket: " + bucket + ", allows siblings? " +
>>> bucket.getAllowSiblings());
>>>
>>> DomainBucketBuilder< MyObjectInRiak > builder =
>>> DomainBucket.builder(bucket, MyObjectInRiak.class);
>>>
>>> builder.r(RIAK\_TX\_R\_VALUE);
>>> builder.w(RIAK\_TX\_W\_VALUE);
>>> builder.rw(RIAK\_TX\_RW\_VALUE);
>>> builder.returnDeletedVClock(true);
>>> builder.returnBody(true);
>>> builder.basicQuorum(false);
>>>
>>> with custom resolver, mutator and converter.
>>> This code runs on 3 servers at the same time during a test and I know
>>> Riak db is empty
>>> and bucket BUCKET\_NAME does not exist.
>>>
>>> log shows that all 3 servers see allowSibbling set to true, but
>>> occasionally test fails and curl shows allow\_multi is false on that bucket!
>>>
>>> Is there any delay, race condition etc in Riak, or client library. that
>>> would explain why that bucket property is not set?
>>> During a test vnode transfer occurs but that should not matter I guess?
>>>
>>> Regards
>>> Daniel
>>>
>>>
>>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ riak-users mailing list
>>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>>
>>
>>
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>
>>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

