---
title: "Re: Best way to query geo hashed data?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-05-19T13:04:34-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11108"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg11107"
author_name: "Ryan Chazen"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-05-19T13:04:34-07:00
---


Hi Eric

The warning on Yokozuna looks a bit troublesome... " It is in developmental
stages and is not recommended for production use at this time."

Also, Solr requires lat/long data, and my data is X,Y coordinates, so the
lat/long calculations/boundaries would possibly be incorrect... although it
might be possible to work around this with some kind of transformation. The
solution itself seems a bit unwieldy and difficult to maintain though, so I
don't think I'd want to use it as a first choice...

Ryan



On Sun, May 19, 2013 at 9:03 PM, Eric Redmond  wrote:

> Rather than geohashing, you might consider Yokozuna. It has built in geo
> searches.
>
> Eric
>
> On May 19, 2013, at 11:47 AM, Ryan Chazen  wrote:
>
> > Hi
> >
> > I'm looking at Riak as a solution for handling this type of data:
> >
> > A map is divided into sectors, and on the map there are many objects
> with each object being in 1 or more sectors. (An object can be in more than
> 1 sector if it is larger than the sector). Objects can move, so object 323
> could move from sector 5 to sector 10.
> >
> > Queries come in of the form : Retrieve all objects in a list of sectors.
> eg Sectors[55, 378, 272, ...] - maximum ~50 sectors per request.
> >
> > From looking through Riak docs, 2i indexes would be perfect but they
> only seem to allow range queries, and not a list of ids.
> > Multiple range queries could be used, but I'm guessing this will be
> heavy on the servers?
> >
> > Map-Reduce looked like a good fit, but the warning on the page states
> "When you want to query data of an entire bucket. MapReduce uses a list of
> keys, which can place a lot of demand on the cluster." - so I guess
> MapReduce is out?
> >
> > The fulltext search seems possible, but I'm a bit confused if it will
> work for this.
> >
> >
> > Any recommendations, or is Riak not a good fit for this type of data?
> >
> > Regards,
> > Ryan
> >
> > \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> > riak-users mailing list
> > riak-users@lists.basho.com
> > http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

