---
title: "Re: CS: Query path for storage/access statistics appears wrong?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-07-02T19:06:13-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14453"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14447"
author_name: "Toby Corkindale"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-07-02T19:06:13-07:00
---


On 3 July 2014 01:57, Hector Castro  wrote:
> Hey Toby,
>
> Are you authenticating the request that uses query string parameters?

Hi Hector,
In both cases I am authenticating the request, using the AWS header method.
I noted that I needed to only do the auth hash based on the path, not
the query parameters, in order for it to succeed though. I just
assumed that was intentional as the AWS spec does indicate that too.
Toby


> On Wed, Jul 2, 2014 at 1:23 AM, Toby Corkindale  wrote:
>> Hi,
>> Maybe I'm doing something wrong, but I find I can only access the Riak
>> CS storage/access information per-user by using the s3-compatible
>> path, not the REST API path -- even though I am connecting to the REST
>> API port.
>>
>> ie. To get the statistics, I am querying
>> http://SERVERNAME:8080/riak-cs/usage/USER-ID/b/STIME/ETIME
>> An actual URI generated this way would be:
>> /riak-cs/usage/ZAZ6\_VYSIE7QMYQRRHY3/b/20140528T000000Z/20140602T000000Z
>>
>>
>> If I try to use the proper API method, I consistently receive
>> "not\_requested" as the results.
>> The API URL is:
>> http://SERVERNAME:8080/riak-cs/usage/USER-ID?b&e=ETIME&s=STIME
>> An actual URI generated this way would be:
>> /riak-cs/usage/JEJ-XPZBSIKSU\_Z4EGPC?b&e=20140602T000000Z&s=20140528T000000Z
>>
>> Is this a known bug or should this be working (and I'm just doing it wrong?).
>> Current latest stable Riak - 1.4.9-1 from Basho Ubuntu repo.
>>
>>
>> Cheers,
>> Toby
>>
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com



-- 
Turning and turning in the widening gyre
The falcon cannot hear the falconer
Things fall apart; the center cannot hold
Mere anarchy is loosed upon the world

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

