---
title: "Re: Seeking Backup solution for live nodes"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2016-09-26T07:09:06-0700
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg17670"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg17668"
author_name: "DeadZen"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2016-09-26T07:09:06-0700
---


there a backup tool that uses this yet? or is this meant more to be used
with snapshots provided through xfs/zfs?

On Monday, September 26, 2016, Matthew Von-Maszewski 
wrote:

> Here are notes on the new hot backup:
>
> https://github.com/basho/leveldb/wiki/mv-hot-backup
>
> This sound like what you need?
>
> Matthew
>
> Sent from my iPad
>
> > On Sep 26, 2016, at 5:39 AM, Niels Christian Sorensen <
> n...@corporateencryption.com > wrote:
> >
> > Hi,
> >
> > We use Riak-kv Enterprise Edition as base for Riak CS to store files in.
> Each customer has a separate bucket in the cluster(s) and all data is
> stored multi site in 3 copies. Thus the "i lost a node" situation is fully
> covered.
> >
> > I need however, a solution for providing customers with a "single
> instance" backup of their data.
> >
> > I am aware of the possibility of tar, cp, scp, what-ever-copy of the
> data - but this require me to take system off-line according to this:
> > https://docs.basho.com/riak/kv/2.1.4/using/cluster-
> operations/backing-up/
> >
> > Also I would still have to restore all customers data (and all involved
> nodes) - this is not trivial!
> >
> > Also I realize that the "riak-admin backup" is deprecated and should be
> avoided - It seemed like an easy solution to my problem but....
> >
> > The s3cmd will allow me to pull out the data and I could most likely
> write a fantastic automatic script based system to use this - I do not have
> the time for that and are therefor looking for a commercial or "pre-build -
> adjustable" solution that will allow me to pull out a single copy of all
> data stored in a bucket and keep it elsewhere.
> >
> > Any ideas / solutions / quotes (as external consultant) on a solution to
> this problem?
> >
> > A plan for recovery is obviously also needed ;-)
> >
> > Thanks in advance
> >
> > /Christian
> >
> > \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> > riak-users mailing list
> > riak-users@lists.basho.com 
> > http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com 
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

