---
title: "Re: Using Riak on systemd based Ubuntu"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-10-02T09:04:26-0700
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16599"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16576"
author_name: "Matthew Brender"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-10-02T09:04:26-0700
---


Hey Matthew,

It seems you ran into some documentation gaps that we should address.
Please open up one or more of them on the docs repo when you can [1]

Could you restate what specifically someone can help you do?

[1] 
https://github.com/basho/basho\_docs/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+riak+cs

Thanks!
Matt Brender | Developer Advocacy Lead
Basho Technologies
t: @mjbrender


On Wed, Sep 30, 2015 at 7:23 PM, Matthew Hall  wrote:
> Hello List,
>
> Today I tried to get the following items to work in Ubuntu 15.04 Vivid with
> systemd based SysV compatibility to run the init scripts:
>
> Riak 2.1.1
> Stanchion 2.0.0
> Riak CS 2.0.1
> Riak CS Control 1.0.2
>
> My app.config files are here for reference:
>
> https://gist.github.com/megahall/676ca0410af4aacc4f74
>
> When I attempted this, both Stanchion and Riak CS fail to stay running for the
> 15 second expected time in the init scripts.
>
> So I read through the "stanchion console" and "riak-cs console" output.
>
> There were some backtraces there complaining about EACCES coming via mochiweb.
>
> Upon modifying /usr/sbin/stanchion and /usr/sbin/riak-cs to add an strace -f
> to track the system calls, I determined that there is an EACCES error raised
> by attempting to bind some sub-process socket onto Port 80. It is hard to see
> what sub-thread or sub-process exactly was the cause.
>
> This is very confusing because none of my configuration mentions Port 80 at
> all.
>
> The configuration works OK in Ubuntu 14.10 without systemd. So now I am
> wondering if anybody has figured out how to get it to work right inside of
> systemd with some .service file examples and so on. It's really important for
> the project I am trying to get done.
>
> Thanks,
> Matthew.
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

