---
title: "Re: secondary indexes limit"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-10-21T10:07:58-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12720"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12715"
author_name: "Louis-Philippe Perron"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-10-21T10:07:58-07:00
---


Hi Russel,
sorry for the confusion, when I talk about different indexes, I talk about
different index names, each key only having around 10 indexes. The cluster
is rather small, 2 nodes, with a dataset of about 25GB representing around
300000 key entries with a possible total secondary index count over 100000
names.

thanks!


On Mon, Oct 21, 2013 at 10:41 AM, Russell Brown wrote:

> Hi Louis-Philippe,
> It costs to create secondary indexes. Nothing is free.
>
> But I'm not sure what "1000 different secondary indexes" means. When you
> add secondary indexes we store the name of the index and the value it
> indexes as part of the object metadata and on disk in an index.
>
> I'm sure our ProServe and CSE could give better examples, but one customer
> I've worked with stores ~20 indexes per object, and has ~60million objects.
> If you means 1000s of different indexes per key, yes, that would make
> reading and writing those keys slower, and would add some overhead to
> communications channels. If you mean 1000s of indexes across your dataset,
> not an issue, if you mean 1000s of index entries, not an issue.
>
> Does that answer your question?
>
> Your previous question, "how many index keys?" depends on how big your
> cluster is, how big your disks are and all the things that determine how
> much data you can store, as indexes are just data too.
>
> Would you care to share some more of your use case or intended use so I
> can help you decide if Riak is suitable?
>
> Cheers
>
> Russell
>
> On 21 Oct 2013, at 15:13, Louis-Philippe Perron 
> wrote:
>
> > I had heard from a possibly unfounded source that creating over 1000
> different secondary indexes could place a burden on cluster performance.
> Can anyone confirm that?
> >
> > L-P
> >
> >
> > On Fri, Oct 18, 2013 at 5:55 PM, Alexander Sicular 
> wrote:
> > I think that's just a memory limit.
> >
> > mo 2i mo problems.
> >
> >
> > @siculars
> > http://siculars.posthaven.com
> >
> > Sent from my iRotaryPhone
> >
> > > On Oct 18, 2013, at 16:44, Louis-Philippe Perron 
> wrote:
> > >
> > > Hi,
> > > this question has probably been answered already, still I can't get to
> it, so,
> > >
> > > What is the maximum number of unique secondary indexe keys a riak
> cluster can manage before running into trouble?
> > >
> > > thanks!
> > >
> > > L-P
> > > \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> > > riak-users mailing list
> > > riak-users@lists.basho.com
> > > http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> >
> > \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> > riak-users mailing list
> > riak-users@lists.basho.com
> > http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

