---
title: "Re: Object metadata via NodeJS client"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-04-08T08:56:01-0700
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15994"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15988"
author_name: "Jose G. Quenum"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-04-08T08:56:01-0700
---


Thanks a bunch Luke. It's now getting clear. However the links manipulation is 
not available yet on the API docs. I guess it's just a matter of update. 
I will now start re implementing my riak data access with this client. When I 
get questions I will turn to you guys. 
Regards
Jose

Sent from my iPad

> On Apr 7, 2015, at 6:50 PM, Luke Bakken  wrote:
> 
> Hi José,
> 
> Please refer to this document:
> 
> http://basho.github.io/riak-nodejs-client/classes/RiakObject.html
> 
> When you retrieve a value, you get a RiakObject back:
> 
> client.fetchValue({ bucket: 'test', key: 'foo' }, function (err, rslt) {
> var riakObj = rslt.values.shift();
> });
> 
> This RiakObject exposes several methods related to metadata.
> 
> I just released version 1.1.0 which adds support for links. You'll see
> that in the API docs now.
> 
> --
> Luke Bakken
> Engineer
> lbak...@basho.com
> 
> 
> On Tue, Apr 7, 2015 at 5:27 AM, José Ghislain Quenum
>  wrote:
>> Luke,
>> In my current implementation, I use metadata for both links and secondary
>> index.
>> 
>>> On Mon, Apr 6, 2015 at 4:03 PM, Luke Bakken  wrote:
>>> 
>>> Hi José,
>>> 
>>> Other than links, what object metadata are you trying to access or modify?
>>> 
>>> Thanks -
>>> 
>>> --
>>> Luke Bakken
>>> Engineer
>>> lbak...@basho.com
>>> 
>>> 
>>> On Sat, Apr 4, 2015 at 6:56 AM, José Ghislain Quenum
>>>  wrote:
>>>> Thanks Brian for your reply and trying to work out the links part. I
>>>> took a look at the RiakObject and could see how to manipulate it with
>>>> FetchValue and the Secondary Index. However, I failed to figure out
>>>> how to access the meta while reading an object. Just as an example,
>>>> when you're updating an object you could be using some meta data, and
>>>> some of them come from a prior read.
>>>> 
>>>> If you could just share some examples with code that'd be very helpful.
>>>> 
>>>> Thanks José
>> 
>> 

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

