---
title: "Re: Questions about installing Stanchion for Riak CS"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2016-05-23T10:23:47-0700
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg17400"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg17399"
author_name: "Sargun Dhillon"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2016-05-23T10:23:47-0700
---


I never got around to it, but it should be pretty easy to glue Consul
to Stanchion to HaProxy. As far as gluing HAProxy to Consule -- that
should be pretty easy: https://github.com/hashicorp/consul-template.
And Stanchion with Consul lock:
https://www.consul.io/docs/commands/lock.html. It shouldn't take long.



On Mon, May 23, 2016 at 10:15 AM, Luke Bakken  wrote:
> Alex -
>
> You won't be able to create new users or buckets while Stanchion is
> offline. You would follow normal procedures to rebuild Riak KV on the
> crashed node, and in the meantime could bring up Stanchion on an
> existing node.
> --
> Luke Bakken
> Engineer
> lbak...@basho.com
>
>
> On Mon, May 23, 2016 at 9:29 AM, Alex De la rosa
>  wrote:
>> Hi Luke,
>>
>> Ok, understood, what if I don't have a load balancer and the node having
>> Stanchion crashes? what will happen to the cluster and how to rebuild it?
>>
>> Thanks,
>> Alex
>>
>> On Mon, May 23, 2016 at 8:09 PM, Luke Bakken  wrote:
>>>
>>> Hi Alex,
>>>
>>> You should only have one active Stanchion process running in your
>>> cluster, since its purpose is to ensure consistent, ordered operations
>>> with regard to users and buckets. You can have a hot-backup if you
>>> configure a load balancer to proxy requests from the Riak CS
>>> processes.
>>> --
>>> Luke Bakken
>>> Engineer
>>> lbak...@basho.com
>>>
>>>
>>> On Sat, May 21, 2016 at 11:41 AM, Alex De la rosa
>>>  wrote:
>>> > Hi there,
>>> >
>>> > I'm creating a Riak CS cluster and I got some questions about the
>>> > following
>>> > sentence from the documentation:
>>> >
>>> > Riak KV and Riak CS must be installed on each node in your cluster.
>>> > Stanchion, however, needs to be installed on only one node.
>>> >
>>> > Is this statement saying that only 1 node can have Stanchion? Or can it
>>> > be
>>> > placed in more servers?.... like Riak KV and Riak CS must be in 5 out of
>>> > 5
>>> > nodes but Stanchion can be in 1 to 5 out of 5 nodes?
>>> >
>>> > If is referring that ONLY 1 out of 5 nodes can have Stanchion and the
>>> > other
>>> > 4 nodes are not allowed to have it installed, what happens if the
>>> > "master"
>>> > node that has Stanchion crashes?
>>> >
>>> > Thanks and Best Regards,
>>> > Alex
>>> >
>>> > \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>>> > riak-users mailing list
>>> > riak-users@lists.basho.com
>>> > http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>> >
>>
>>
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

