---
title: "Re: Secondary indexes or Riak search ?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2017-02-06T03:04:36-0800
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg17920"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg17919"
author_name: "Alex Feng"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2017-02-06T03:04:36-0800
---


Hi Russell,

It is really helpful, thank you a lot.
We are suffering from solr crash now, are considering to switch to 2i.

Br,
Alex

2017-02-06 16:53 GMT+08:00 Russell Brown :

> It’s worth noting that secondary indexes (2i) has some other advantages
> over solr search. If you \_can\_ model your queries in 2i then I'd recommend
> it.
>
> Secondary indexes have a richer API than is currently documented, if you
> look at https://docs.basho.com/riak/1.4.7/dev/using/2i/ you’ll see that
> documents a feature that allows the index terms to be filtered via reg ex.
> There is also the feature that can return the actual riak objects for a
> $keys index search,
> You can pack the index terms with data and return the terms in a query so
> that you don’t need a further object fetch (see return\_terms in docs.)
> Secondary indexes are written atomically with the object they index.
> Operationally they don’t require you run a JVM and Solr alongside your
> riak nodes.
>
> You have the tools with basho\_bench to answer the question about
> performance and overhead for your workload. I suspect for “overhead” 2i
> wins, as there is no JVM-per-node.
>
> Modelling for 2i is perhaps harder, in the classical nosql way, you have
> to do more work upfront when designing your querying.
>
> I hope that helps a little. I worked quite a lot on 2i and never really
> understood why riak-search was seen as a replacment, imo they’re
> complementary, and you pick the one that best fits.
>
> Cheers
>
> Russell
>
> On 2 Feb 2017, at 09:43, Alex Feng  wrote:
>
> > Hello Riak-users,
> >
> > I am currently using Riak search to do some queries, since my queries
> are very simple, it should be fulfilled by secondary indexes as well.
> > So, my question is which one has better performance and less overhead,
> let's say both can fulfill the query requirement.
> >
> > Many thanks in advance.
> >
> > Br,
> > Alex
> > \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> > riak-users mailing list
> > riak-users@lists.basho.com
> > http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

