---
title: "Hit a snag in using the MultiPartUpload"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-08-27T14:23:50-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12140"
author_name: "Shannon Monasco"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-08-27T14:23:50-07:00
---


Hi,

Sorry if I haven't RTFM enough, but I couldn't find a link to archived 
mailing-list items. If anyone can point me to that I'd be happy to stumble 
through it for a while.

That aside my issue as follows:

I get my uploadId and then on my first part upload I get:

RESPONSE
========
Status : 477 Internal Server Error 
(CommunicationLayer.debugResponse:307)(Client#8-1)
2013-08-27 14:53:12,231 DEBUG > Headers:
 null=HTTP/1.1 477 Internal Server Error
 Date=Tue, 27 Aug 2013 20:52:17 GMT
 Content-Length=0
 Content-Type=application/xml
 Server=Riak CS (CommunicationLayer.debugResponse:317)(Client#8-1)

When I send something like:

REQUEST
=======
Method : POST
URI : http://xxxxxxxxxxxxx:8080/test-bucket/asdfghj?partNumber=1
 &uploadId=QRvSDKtLThaxblNQQVNzxA%3D%3D
Headers:
 Date=Tue, 27 Aug 2013 20:53:07 GMT
 Content-Type=binary/octet-stream
Request Body Data:
asdfjkl;

The bucket is there as it let me start it. That's the right key and uploadId. 
The only interesting thing I can find in the logs is:

20:52:07.758 [debug] STS: ["DELETE","\n",[],"\n",[],"\n",["Tue, 27 Aug 2013 
20:53:02 GMT","\n"],[],["/test-bucket/asdfghj",[]]]^M
20:52:07.775 [debug] STS: 
["POST","\n",[],"\n","application/octet-stream","\n",["Tue, 27 Aug 2013 
20:53:02 
GMT","\n"],[["x-amz-meta-foo",":",<<"Bar">>,"\n"],["x-amz-meta-fooalso",":",<<"BarAlso">>,"\n"]],["/test-bucket/asdfghj","?uploads"]]^M
20:52:13.198 [debug] STS: 
["POST","\n",[],"\n","binary/octet-stream","\n",["Tue, 27 Aug 2013 20:53:07 
GMT","\n"],[],["/test-bucket/asdfghj","?partNumber=1&uploadId=QRvSDKtLThaxblNQQVNzxA=="]]^M
3899- fatal: expected\_element\_start\_tag

I'm still making our POC, so I'm sure I'm doing something wrong, but I have no 
idea what "expected\_element\_start\_tag" refers to or how I can affect it.

We're running a compiled from source Riak-CS 1.4.0, stanchion 1.4.0 and Riak 
1.4.1 on CentOS 4 (yea it's old, but I'd expect to get it working if I can get 
it compiled from source.) With the following Erlang

[xxxxxxxxx@xxxxxxxxx riak]$ erl
Erlang R15B01 (erts-5.9.1) [source] [64-bit] [smp:8:8] [async-threads:0] [hipe] 
[kernel-poll:false]

Eshell V5.9.1 (abort with ^G)
1>

Thank you for your time,
Shannon Monasco

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
This e-mail, including accompanying communications and attachments, is strictly 
confidential and only for the intended recipient. Any retention, use or 
disclosure not expressly authorised by Markit is prohibited. This email is 
subject to all waivers and other terms at the following link: 
http://www.markit.com/en/about/legal/email-disclaimer.page

Please visit http://www.markit.com/en/about/contact/contact-us.page? for 
contact information on our offices worldwide.
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

