---
title: "Re: Java Client - Maps - fetch only one entry"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2016-02-25T13:01:33-0800
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg17071"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg17070"
author_name: "Vitaly E"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2016-02-25T13:01:33-0800
---


I would advise against search for many reasons. IMO writing two copies of a
value - one in a map (when the entire map is required) and the other in a
separate key (for most cases) will work much better.

You can also store the values of a map in separate keys for
retrieval/updates, and also have a set of the keys for those [rare] cases
when you need all values that belong to the map. The latter requires
several round-trips, but I believe will be still faster, easier to
maintain, and more reliable than search.

Regards,
Vitaly


On Thu, Feb 25, 2016 at 10:36 PM, Cosmin Marginean 
wrote:

> Yes, we ended up doing that in the end. Was just a usecase where
> \_sometimes\_ the map was required as a whole, while \_other times\_ only a
> specific entry. I believe search would help with some of this, but we are
> still looking into that.
>
> Thanks everyone for your help
>
> Cheers
> Cos
>
> On 25 Feb 2016, at 19:56, Vitaly E <13vitam...@gmail.com> wrote:
>
> Hi Cosmin,
>
> Sorry for the dumb question, but if you are interested in a specific entry
> why not to store it as a separate key? It would be easier for updates, too.
>
> Regards,
> Vitaly
>
> On Thu, Feb 25, 2016 at 9:40 PM, Cosmin Marginean  > wrote:
>
>> On 25 Feb 2016, at 19:26, Cosmin Marginean 
>> wrote:
>>
>> Hi,
>>
>> I couldn’t find this anywhere in the docs: is there a mechanism in Riak
>> to fetch only one Register (or a specific entry) from a map?
>> We have a use case where we have a map and need to only get the value for
>> a key in the map, rather than the whole map, and I would rather not
>> transfer the entire thing on the client.
>>
>> Cheers
>> Cos
>>
>>
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>
>
>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

