---
title: "Re: Is Riak dead?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2017-07-14T15:29:29-0700
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg18362"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg18353"
author_name: "Dave King"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2017-07-14T15:29:29-0700
---


No, but I can read.

- Peace
Dave


On Fri, Jul 14, 2017 at 4:27 PM, Russell Brown 
wrote:

>
> On 14 Jul 2017, at 23:26, Dave King  wrote:
>
> > 6. Trademarks. This License does not grant permission to use the trade
> names, trademarks, service marks, or product names of the Licensor, except
> as required for reasonable and customary use in describing the origin of
> the Work and reproducing the content of the NOTICE file.
> >
> > So At minimum I read that as there would need to be a new product name,
> and the docs for that product could say formerly known as Riak.
>
> You are lawyer?
>
> >
> > - Peace
> > Dave
> >
> > On Fri, Jul 14, 2017 at 4:22 PM, Russell Brown 
> wrote:
> >
> > On 14 Jul 2017, at 23:17, Dave King  wrote:
> >
> > > Looks like Basho has the trademark on Riak.
> > > http://www.trademarkia.com/riak-77954950.html
> >
> > They sure do. And if you look at the Apache2 license you’ll see that it
> grants use of the name to identify the source.
> >
> > Look, I’m not a lawyer, and I’m guessing you’re not a lawyer. What
> difference does the name or trademark make? There are a bunch of active
> users of Riak, some of whom have made it clear they plan to continue using
> it. Dance on Basho’s grave all you want, but Riak isn’t dead yet.
> >
> > >
> > > - Peace
> > > Dave
> > >
> > >
> > > On Fri, Jul 14, 2017 at 4:08 PM, Alexander Sicular 
> wrote:
> > >
> > >
> > > > On Jul 14, 2017, at 11:32, Russell Brown 
> wrote:
> > > >
> > > > What do you mean “encumbered”? Riak is the name of an Apache2
> licensed open source database, so it can continue to be used to describe
> that apache 2 licensed database, please don’t spread FUD.
> > >
> > > You willing to invest time in a project that could be legally
> encumbered at some point in the future because lawyers? You willing to put
> that beyond the clown fiesta that is Basho? I don't think so.
> > > \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> > > riak-users mailing list
> > > riak-users@lists.basho.com
> > > http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> > >
> >
> >
>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

