---
title: "Re: changing riak-cs server hostname"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-07-09T12:46:54-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11429"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg11422"
author_name: "Kelly McLaughlin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-07-09T12:46:54-07:00
---


Guy,

First, in your riak\_cs config file you'll want to change the value of
cs\_root\_host to "s3.bksv.com". Then in the riak\_cs\_control config file
change the value of cs\_hostname to also be "s3.bksv.com". That should be
all you need to do as long as \*.s3.bksv.com resolves to your RiakCS machine.

Kelly


On Mon, Jul 8, 2013 at 11:59 PM, Guy Morton  wrote:

> Let me be more specific...
>
> %% Instance of Riak CS you wish to talk to.
> {cs\_hostname, "s3.amazonaws.com" },
> {cs\_port, 8080 },
> {cs\_protocol, "http" },
>
> %% Proxy information; necessary if you are using s3.amazonaws.comas
> %% your hostname.
> {cs\_proxy\_host, "s3.bksv.com" },
> {cs\_proxy\_port, 8080 },
>
> Now, if I address the machine as s3.amazonaws.com from my local machine
> (using a hosts file to map that to the RiakCS machine's IP) it works fine.
>
> If I try and access it as s3.bksv.com I can list buckets but attempting
> to open them gets me an access denied response.
>
> So I'm a bit confused.
>
> --
> Guy Morton
> Web Development Manager
> Brüel & Kjær EMS
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> From: riak-users [riak-users-boun...@lists.basho.com] on behalf of Guy
> Morton [guy.mor...@bksv.com]
> Sent: Tuesday, 9 July 2013 3:54 PM
> To: riak-users [riak-users@lists.basho.com]
> Subject: changing riak-cs server hostname
>
> Hi guys
>
> I have a riak-cs server I've successfully got working using
> s3.amazonaws.com as the hostname. I'm using host files to access it form
> my local machine. What do I need to do to change the hostname?
>
> I want to be able to use both Amazon S3 and RiakCS, you see.
>
> regards
>
> --
> Guy Morton
> Web Development Manager
> Brüel & Kjær EMS
>
> This e-mail is confidential and may be read, copied and used only by the
> intended recipient. If you have received it in error, please contact the
> sender immediately by return e-mail. Please then delete the e-mail and do
> not disclose its contents to any other person.
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
> This e-mail is confidential and may be read, copied and used only by the
> intended recipient. If you have received it in error, please contact the
> sender immediately by return e-mail. Please then delete the e-mail and do
> not disclose its contents to any other person.
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

