---
title: "Re: Corrugated Iron Exception"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-06-06T14:17:36-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11230"
author_name: "OJ Reeves"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-06-06T14:17:36-07:00
---


Hi Pandiarajan,

Thanks for the email. This is the first I've heard of CI being used behind
a WCF service before, so perhaps you've uncovered some kind of quirk. It
does seem a little odd that it can't find protobuf-net given that it has a
reference to it in your project.

Can you please give me some more information about your configuration? Is
your WCF service being hosted in IIS or are you self-hosting? Can you
please confirm the deployment paths for your application, along with
virtual directories, so that we can make sure the binaries are correctly
deployed to the right location? Can you confirm the version of .NET that
you are using (is it 4.0 or 4.5?).

Many thanks.
OJ




On Fri, Jun 7, 2013 at 6:31 AM, Pandiarajan Subramani <
psubram...@americanlogistics.com> wrote:

> Hi ,\*\*\*\*
>
> I am working on a WCF Rest Service application and I have Corrugated
> Iron library in a separate project which is part of the WCF application.
> When I try to create an instance of IRiakEndpoint in this project I am
> getting the below exception. But when I try to create the same
> IRiakEndpoint in a console application, it works fine and I am able to
> connect to the riak servers. I have attached the screen shots of the
> exception. The exception says that I might miss protobuf-net assembly, but
> I have it as the reference in the project. I really appreciate any help
> provided.\*\*\*\*
>
> \*Exception -The type initializer for 'CorrugatedIron.Comms.RiakPbcSocket'
> threw an exception.\*
>
> \*{System.IO.FileNotFoundException: Could not load file or assembly
> 'protobuf-net, Version=2.0.0.640, Culture=neutral,
> PublicKeyToken=257b51d87d2e4d67' or one of its dependencies. The system
> cannot find the file specified.\*
>
> \*File name: 'protobuf-net, Version=2.0.0.640, Culture=neutral,
> PublicKeyToken=257b51d87d2e4d67' ---> System.IO.FileNotFoundException:
> Could not load file or assembly 'protobuf-net, Version=2.0.0.621,
> Culture=neutral, PublicKeyToken=257b51d87d2e4d67' or one of its
> dependencies. The system cannot find the file specified.\*
>
> \*File name: 'protobuf-net, Version=2.0.0.621, Culture=neutral,
> PublicKeyToken=257b51d87d2e4d67'\*
>
> \* \*
>
> \*=== Pre-bind state information ===\*
>
> \*LOG: User = ALC\psubramani\*
>
> \*LOG: DisplayName = protobuf-net, Version=2.0.0.621, Culture=neutral,
> PublicKeyToken=257b51d87d2e4d67\*
>
> \*(Fully-specified)\*
>
> \*LOG: Appbase = file:///C:/Users/psubramani/Documents/Visual Studio
> 2012/Projects/FGS/FastGeocodeService/ALC.FGS.Service.Main/\*
>
> \*LOG: Initial PrivatePath = C:\Users\psubramani\Documents\Visual Studio
> 2012\Projects\FGS\FastGeocodeService\ALC.FGS.Service.Main\bin\*
>
> \*Calling assembly : CorrugatedIron, Version=1.3.2.0, Culture=neutral,
> PublicKeyToken=fb1ec7de601674df.\*
>
> \*===\*
>
> \*LOG: This bind starts in default load context.\*
>
> \*LOG: Using application configuration file:
> C:\Users\psubramani\Documents\Visual Studio
> 2012\Projects\FGS\FastGeocodeService\ALC.FGS.Service.Main\web.config\*
>
> \*LOG: Using host configuration file:
> C:\Users\psubramani\Documents\IISExpress\config\aspnet.config\*
>
> \*LOG: Using machine configuration file from
> C:\Windows\Microsoft.NET\Framework\v4.0.30319\config\machine.config.\*
>
> \*LOG: Redirect found in application configuration file: 2.0.0.621
> redirected to 2.0.0.640.\*
>
> \*LOG: Post-policy reference: protobuf-net, Version=2.0.0.640,
> Culture=neutral, PublicKeyToken=257b51d87d2e4d67\*
>
> \*LOG: Attempting download of new URL
> file:///C:/Users/psubramani/AppData/Local/Temp/Temporary 
> ASP.NETFiles/root/248c20ad/e2925c4/protobuf-net.DLL.
> \*
>
> \*LOG: Attempting download of new URL
> file:///C:/Users/psubramani/AppData/Local/Temp/Temporary 
> ASP.NETFiles/root/248c20ad/e2925c4/protobuf-net/protobuf-net.DLL.
> \*
>
> \*LOG: Attempting download of new URL 
> file:///C:/Users/psubramani/Documents/Visual
> Studio
> 2012/Projects/FGS/FastGeocodeService/ALC.FGS.Service.Main/bin/protobuf-net.DLL
> .\*
>
> \*LOG: Attempting download of new URL 
> file:///C:/Users/psubramani/Documents/Visual
> Studio
> 2012/Projects/FGS/FastGeocodeService/ALC.FGS.Service.Main/bin/protobuf-net/protobuf-net.DLL
> .\*
>
> \*LOG: Attempting download of new URL
> file:///C:/Users/psubramani/AppData/Local/Temp/Temporary 
> ASP.NETFiles/root/248c20ad/e2925c4/protobuf-net.EXE.
> \*
>
> \*LOG: Attempting download of new URL
> file:///C:/Users/psubramani/AppData/Local/Temp/Temporary 
> ASP.NETFiles/root/248c20ad/e2925c4/protobuf-net/protobuf-net.EXE.
> \*
>
> \*LOG: Attempting download of new URL 
> file:///C:/Users/psubramani/Documents/Visual
> Studio
> 2012/Projects/FGS/FastGeocodeService/ALC.FGS.Service.Main/bin/protobuf-net.EXE
> .\*
>
> \*LOG: Attempting download of new URL 
> file:///C:/Users/psubramani/Documents/Visual
> Studio
> 2012/Projects/FGS/FastGeocodeService/ALC.FGS.Service.Main/bin/protobuf-net/protobuf-net.EXE
> .\*
>
> \* \*
>
> \* at CorrugatedIron.Comms.RiakPbcSocket..cctor()\*
>
> \* \*
>
> \*}\*
>
> \*Could not load file or assembly 'protobuf-net, Version=2.0.0.640,
> Culture=neutral, PublicKeyToken=257b51d87d2e4d67' or one of its
> dependencies. The system cannot find the file specified.\*
>
> \* \*
>
> \*\* \*\*
>
> Thanks and Regards\*\*\*\*
>
> \*Pandiarajan Subramani\*\*\*\*\*
>
> American Logistics Company (ALC) | Office: 866.999.3371 x132 | Mobile:
> 575.915.2325 | www.AmericanLogistics.com
> \*\*\*\*
>
> \*Coordinating Passenger Transportation\*\*\*\*\*
>
> \*Confidentiality Notice: \*This message is intended only for the use of
> the individual or entity to whom it is addressed. The message may contain
> confidential or legally privileged information. If you are not the intended
> recipient you are hereby notified that any disclosure, copying,
> distribution of this information is strictly prohibited and may be
> unlawful. If you have received this communication in error, please notify
> us immediately by responding to this email and then delete it from your
> system.\*\*\*\*
>
> \*\* \*\*
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>


-- 

OJ Reeves
+61 431 952 586
http://buffered.io/
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

