---
title: "Exploring Riak, need to confirm throughput"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-04-02T15:51:33-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10643"
author_name: "Matthew MacClary"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-04-02T15:51:33-07:00
---


Hi all, I am new to this list. Thanks for taking the time to read my
questions! I just want to know if the data throughput I am seeing is
expected for the bitcask backend or if it is too low.

I am doing the preliminary feasibility study to decide if we should
implement a Riak data store. Our application involves rendering chunks of
data that range in size from about 1MB-9MB or so. This rendering work is
CPU intensive so it is spread over a bunch of compute nodes which write the
output into a data store.

After rendering, a second process consumes that data chunks from the data
store at a rate of about 480MB/s in a streaming configuration so there is >
480MB/s of new data coming in at the same time the data is being read.

My testing so far involves a one node cluster on a dev box. What I wanted
to show is that Riak writes were limited by the hard disk throughput. So
far I haven't seen writes to localhost come anywhere close to the hard disk
throughput:

$ MYFILE=/tmp/output.png
$ dd if=/dev/zero of=$MYFILE bs=8k count=256k
262144+0 records in
262144+0 records out
2147483648 bytes (2.1 GB) copied, 4.48906 seconds, 478 MB/s
$ rm $MYFILE

So the hard disk throughput is around 478MB/s for this simple write test.

The next test I did was to load a 39MB binary file into my one node
cluster. I used a script to do 12 POSTs with curl and 12 POSTSs with wget.

curl --tcp-nodelay -XPOST http://${IP}:${PORT}/riak/test/file3 \
 -H "Content-Type:application/octet-stream" \
 --data-binary @${UPLOAD\_FILE} \
 --write-out "%{speed\_upload}\n"

wget --post-file ${UPLOAD\_FILE} http://127.0.0.1:8098/riak/test/file1

What I found was that I could get only about 26MB/s with this command line
testing. Does this seam about right? Should I see an 18x slow down over the
write speed of the disk drive?

Thanks for your comments on my application and test approach!

-Matt

-----------------------------------------------
Dev Environment Details:
dev box running RHEL6.2, 12 cores, 48GB, 6Gb/s SAS 15k HD
Riak 1.2.1 from
http://downloads.basho.com.s3-website-us-east-1.amazonaws.com/riak/1.2/1.2.1/rhel/5/riak-1.2.1-1.el5.x86\_64.rpm
n\_val=1
r=1
w=1
backend=bitcask

Deploy Environment Details:
 Node to node bandwidth > 40Gb/s
 similar config for node servers
 n\_val=3
 r=1
 w=1
 backend=?
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

