---
title: "Re: Riak 1.3 YCSB Read Time Out"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-07-12T08:34:19-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11507"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg11505"
author_name: "Dave Parfitt"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-07-12T08:34:19-07:00
---


Hello Veronika -

 We're actively working on the YCSB project located at [0]. It should work
fine with Riak 1.4. Since the existing implementation of YCSB is a
work-in-progress, you can't trust any results it gives you until we get it
merged upstream with the official YCSB repo. I'm not sure what's causing
the "Read timed Out" exception, can you provide any logs?

Cheers -
Dave

[0] https://github.com/basho-labs/YCSB




On Fri, Jul 12, 2013 at 11:23 AM, Nika Abramova  wrote:

> Thank you for reply.
> Of course I can try new version but will I be able to run YCSB for 1.3
> over 1.4? This is my concern.
> What is the minimal RAM required for Riak to work correctly? I mean, what
> I am doing is inserting 100.000 records at once.
>
> Regards, Veronika
>
> ------------------------------
> Date: Fri, 12 Jul 2013 16:07:23 +0100
> From: guido.med...@temetra.com
> To: riak-users@lists.basho.com
> Subject: Re: Riak 1.3 YCSB Read Time Out
>
>
> Hi Veronika,
>
> Riak 1.4.0 was released yesterday, with the new streaming features nodes
> will stream keys to you instead of working with the whole result in memory,
> which will probably avoid the timeout.
>
> Though your RAM and specially using a VM could be a limiting factor, still
> worthy a try.
> Once your node is up type riak-admin diag and see if some parameters need
> to be adjusted.
>
> For more information on tuning:
> http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/cookbooks/Linux-Performance-Tuning/
>
> HTH,
>
> Guido.
>
> On 12/07/13 14:58, Nika Abramova wrote:
>
> Greetings,
> I am currently testing different NoSQL databases and now I was starting
> Riak. I downloaded and installed Riak 1.3 and was executing YCSB over it.
> But after some time (40 sec) of loading data, I got "Read timed Out"
> exception.
> How can I solve it? I am working locally, on same machine so my connection
> is to localhost. Is that lack of RAM that causing that? Since I am using VM
> and I only have 2GB RAM for it. Or it is something else I can configure?
>
> Regards, Veronika
>
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing 
> listriak-users@lists.basho.comhttp://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

