---
title: "Re: Riak Search - Fast Bulk Insert"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-08-14T08:17:28-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14653"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14652"
author_name: "Alexander Sicular"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-08-14T08:17:28-07:00
---


And, afaik, a single index.xml file with multiple docs should probably be 
broken up into one file per doc to make better use of the parallelism already 
mentioned. 

Regards,
Alexander 

@siculars
http://siculars.posthaven.com

Sent from my iRotaryPhone

> On Aug 14, 2014, at 10:43, "Eric Redmond"  wrote:
> 
> Note that the search-cmd is for search pre 2.0, which does not use solr. If 
> you're planning on using the new Solr based search, you'll need to run Riak 
> 2.0, and write an import script as Dmitri pointed out.
> 
> Eric Redmond, Engineer @ Basho
> 
> 
> On Thu, Aug 14, 2014 at 7:38 AM, Dmitri Zagidulin  
> wrote:
> 
> Hi Mark,
> 
> The best way to bulk load objects into Riak (and into Solr) is to take 
> advantage of Riak's parallelism.
> Spin up a bunch of worker threads (and have them share a pool of connections) 
> and have them issue parallel concurrent puts to all of the nodes in a cluster 
> (you can either use something like HAProxy to load balance, or a riak 
> client's internal load balancing capabilities). 
> 
> This is what https://github.com/basho-labs/riak-data-migrator does, for 
> example, to restore filed out objects quickly.
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
>> On Thu, Aug 14, 2014 at 5:26 AM, Mark Richard Thomas 
>>  wrote:
>> Hello
>> 
>> 
>> What’s the fastest way (best practice) to insert 20 million documents into a 
>> Riak Search index?
>> 
>> 
>> search-cmd solr my\_bucket /insert.xml
>> 
>> 
>> For a proof-of-concept I’ve create a file (index.html) containing 100,000 
>> documents:
>> 
>> 
>> 
>> 
>> 
>> 
>> 
>> 
>> :
>> 
>> 
>> 
>> 
>> Thanks
>> 
>> 
>> Mark Thomas | Software Engineer | Equifax UK
>> 
>> 
>> p: +44 (0)208 941 0573
>> 
>> m: +44 (0)7908 798 270
>> 
>> e: mark.tho...@equifax.com
>> 
>> 
>> Equifax Ltd, Capital House, 25 Chapel Street, London, NW1 5DS
>> 
>> 
>> Equifax Limited is registered in England with Registered No. 2425920. 
>> Registered Office: Capital House, 25 Chapel Street, London NW1 5DS. Equifax 
>> Limited is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
>> 
>> Equifax Touchstone Limited is registered in Scotland with Registered No. 
>> SC113401. Registered Office: 54 Deerdykes View, Westfield Park, Cumbernauld 
>> G68 9HN.
>> 
>> Equifax Commercial Services Limited is registered in the Republic of Ireland 
>> with Registered No. 215393. Registered Office: IDA Business & Technology 
>> Park, Rosslare Road, Drinagh, Wexford.
>> 
>> 
>> This message contains information from Equifax which may be confidential and 
>> privileged. If you are not an intended recipient, please refrain from any 
>> disclosure, copying, distribution or use of this information and note that 
>> such actions are prohibited. If you have received this transmission in 
>> error, please notify by e-mail postmas...@equifax.com.
>> 
>> 
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> 
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

