---
title: "Re: cuttlefish"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-10-29T08:21:19-0700
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16717"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16713"
author_name: "Luke Bakken"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-10-29T08:21:19-0700
---


Hi Michael,

I'm figuring this out as I go as well. I searched for "riak.conf"
(https://github.com/basho/riak/search?q=riak.conf) and got a hit here:

https://github.com/basho/riak/blob/develop/rel/rebar.config

I suspect this configuration is what causes "riak.conf" to be
generated at build time, via this code:

https://github.com/basho/cuttlefish/blob/develop/src/cuttlefish\_rebar\_plugin.erl

--
Luke Bakken
Engineer
lbak...@basho.com

On Thu, Oct 29, 2015 at 8:12 AM, Michael Martin  wrote:
> Hi Luke,
>
> Thanks for the quick reply.
>
> I've been throught the "Cuttlefish-for-Erlang-Developers" doc a couple of
> times now.
> I must be missing something.
>
> The main README states:
>
> "When we build Riak, Cuttlefish generates a riak.conf file that contains the
> default shipping configuration of Riak. When a script to start Riak is run,
> a Cuttlefish escript is spun up, reads the riak.conf file and combines that
> with the Schema to generate an app.config."
>
> But I see no reference to how I make Cuttlefish generate my script, nor
> where to find the Cuttlefish escript that reads
> the .conf file and generates the app.config. I don't see this information in
> the Wiki, either.
>
> Thanks,
> Michael
>
>
>
>
> On 10/29/2015 09:55 AM, Luke Bakken wrote:
>
> Hi Michael,
>
> This wiki page may be of interest:
> https://github.com/basho/cuttlefish/wiki/Cuttlefish-for-Erlang-Developers
>
> After cuttlefish loads and processes your schemas, the variables and
> values are available via Erlang's standard application:get\_env()
> function as though they were loaded from the regular configuration
> file.
>
> --
> Luke Bakken
> Engineer
> lbak...@basho.com
>
>
> On Thu, Oct 29, 2015 at 6:38 AM, Michael Martin 
> wrote:
>
> Hi folks,
>
> Sorry if this is the wrong venue for cuttlefish questions - please 302 me to
> the right place if need be.
>
> I would like to use cuttlefish in my application, but can't see how to hook
> it in. Doing the schemas is
> quite obvious - I have a small set of mappings ready to go. I just don't see
> in the cuttlefish docs how
> to make my application cuttlefish-aware.
>
> Any pointers would be greatly appreciated.
>
> Thanks,
> Michael
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

