---
title: "Re: nodes with 100% HD usage"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-04-13T04:28:31-0700
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16004"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16002"
author_name: "Alex De la rosa"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-04-13T04:28:31-0700
---


Awesome! thanks Bryan, that's exactly what I wanted to know.

Monitoring that all nodes are below 80% of capacity and add nodes when
reaching those limits to rebalance data and free space on this nodes seems
the right way to go then : )

Thanks,
Alex

On Mon, Apr 13, 2015 at 1:16 PM, bryan hunt  wrote:

> Result - Failed writes, reduced AAE availability, system errors, probably
> other (OS level) processes terminating.
>
> 100% disk usage is never good. However, our storage systems are
> write-append, which will mitigate against data corruption.
>
> If the node becomes completely unavailable, the other nodes will also
> attempt to rebalance the data, with less nodes this means each node will be
> responsible for more storage, which could potentially cause a cascading
> failure.
>
> Moral of the story - monitor, and start sending SMS messages when disk use
> goes above 80%, a standard devops chore, and applicable to any business
> critical computer system.
>
> Bryan
>
> > On 9 Apr 2015, at 14:10, Alex De la rosa 
> wrote:
> >
> > Hi there,
> >
> > One theoretical question; what happens when a node (or more) hits a 100%
> HD usage?
> >
> > Riak can easily scale horizontally adding new nodes to the cluster, but
> what if one of them is full? will the system have troubles? will this node
> only be used only for reading and new items get saved in the other nodes?
> will the data rebalance in newly added servers freeing some space in the
> fully used node?
> >
> > Thanks!
> > Alex
> > \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> > riak-users mailing list
> > riak-users@lists.basho.com
> > http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

