---
title: "Re: Changing Bitcask Expiry Policy"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2017-06-29T07:30:38-0700
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg18305"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg18298"
author_name: "Felipe Esteves"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2017-06-29T07:30:38-0700
---


Thanks a lot for this brief explanation, Martin!

Felipe Esteves

Tecnologia

felipe.este...@b2wdigital.com 

Tel.: (21) 3504-7162 ramal 57162

Skype: felipe2esteves

2017-06-27 13:55 GMT-03:00 Martin Sumner :

> Felipe,
>
> I've not played around with this myself. However, after a brief look at
> the bitcask code, it looks like a timestamp is given to each object as it
> is written to bitcask - to represent the time it was written, not the time
> it will expire. The expiry\_time is part of the state of the bitcask
> process passed on startup, and is not looked at during the PUT flow.
>
> Bitcask checks to see if an object is expired when it is read (and also
> when merging files), by comparing the write\_time timestamp with the current
> time (less the expiry time in seconds) - and the object is then deleted as
> part of the GET operation. So if the expiry time is disabled, these reads
> will be forever valid once bitcask has that new state, as no knowledge of
> the old expiry time is retained in the store. I don't think the object
> itself has any sense of when it will expire, so I would expect that in your
> case your data will be preserved.
>
> I would recommend testing this before relying on my quick read through.
>
> Regards
>
> Martin
>
> Hi,
>
> any hint on this question?
>
> Felipe Esteves
>
> Tecnologia
> felipe.esteves at b2wdigital.com 
>  
>  >
>
> Tel.: (21) 3504-7162 ramal 57162
>
> Skype: felipe2esteves
>
> 2017-06-21 16:35 GMT-03:00 Felipe Esteves  >:
>
> >\* Hi,
> \*>>\* If I have a Riak cluster with bitcask expiry turned on, let's say, 14
> \*>\* days, and then change it to \*bitcask.expiry=off\* before any expiration
> \*>\* occurs, all my data will be preserved? Or all data prior to the parameter
> \*>\* change could still expiries based on the previous deadline?
> \*>>\* Riak is version 2.2.3
> \*>>\* thanks,
> \*>>\* Felipe Esteves
> \*>>\* Tecnologia
> \*>>\* felipe.esteves at b2wdigital.com 
>  
>  >
> \*>>>
>
>
> ------------------------------
>
> Esta mensagem pode conter informações confidenciais e somente o indivíduo
> ou entidade a quem foi destinada pode utilizá-la. A transmissão incorreta
> da mensagem não acarreta a perda de sua confidencialidade. Caso esta
> mensagem tenha sido recebida por engano, solicitamos que o fato seja
> comunicado ao remetente e que a mensagem seja eliminada de seu sistema
> imediatamente. É vedado a qualquer pessoa que não seja o destinatário usar,
> revelar, distribuir ou copiar qualquer parte desta mensagem. Ambiente de
> comunicação sujeito a monitoramento.
>
> This message may include confidential information and only the intended
> addresses have the right to use it as is, or any part of it. A wrong
> transmission does not break its confidentiality. If you've received it
> because of a mistake or erroneous transmission, please notify the sender
> and delete it from your system immediately. This communication environment
> is controlled and monitored.
>
> B2W Digital
>
>
>

-- 

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

