---
title: "Re: Riak 2.0 release schedule?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-11-08T16:35:37-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12916"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12907"
author_name: "N. Tucker"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-11-08T16:35:37-08:00
---


Yes, that definitely helps. And I promise not to try to hold you to
those dates. :)


On Fri, Nov 8, 2013 at 2:53 PM, Jared Morrow  wrote:
> Monday.
>
>
> Just kidding. Let me state right up front that we tend to not promise any
> dates. We release Riak versions when we believe they are done, tested every
> way we know how, and generally are the highest quality. Something like 2.0
> is even worse because there are so many new major features.
>
> Given that incredible initial warning that everything I'm about to say
> should be taken with a grain of salt... We plan to release final 2.0 in the
> first quarter of 2014. My gut feeling will be in the Jan-Feb timeframe, but
> March is not out of the question. 1.4 was pretty close to when we thought
> it would come out +/- weeks, but 1.3 was off by a few months due to a major
> bug found in the Erlang VM during our 1.3 testing. So if things go as
> expected, beginning of 2014 is our plan. If some major event happens or
> some crazy bug is found, this of course could slip.
>
> I think I've sufficiently covered this email with escape hatches.
>
> Hope that helped a little bit,
> -Jared
>
>
>
>
> On Fri, Nov 8, 2013 at 1:49 PM, N. Tucker
>  wrote:
>>
>> Hi Basho folks. I've been looking at some of the new stuff in Riak
>> 2.0 and am very excited about the possibility of replacing my aging
>> and borderline-overloaded Solr index with a Yokozuna-powered Riak
>> cluster. I'll be downloading the 2.0 Technical Preview to experiment
>> with, but I'm curious just how far off (in rough terms, obviously) a
>> production-ready Riak2.0/Yokozuna is. Have any announcements about
>> the target release date been made? I haven't seen any. Apologies if
>> it's been mentioned here, but I looked through the list archives and
>> didn't see it.
>>
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

