---
title: "RE: Contributing to Riak code-base, adding patches for optional	useful features"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-09-18T12:14:04-0700
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16542"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16541"
author_name: "Rahman, Muntasir Raihan"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-09-18T12:14:04-0700
---


Thanks Chris and Matt! I will try to submit a detailed pull request asap.

Best Regards
Muntasir.

From: Matthew Brender [mailto:mbren...@basho.com]
Sent: Friday, September 18, 2015 2:05 PM
To: Christopher Meiklejohn
Cc: Rahman, Muntasir Raihan; riak-users@lists.basho.com
Subject: Re: Contributing to Riak code-base, adding patches for optional useful 
features

Hi Muntasir,

Thank you for sharing this work! I agree with Chris: please open a detailed 
pull request when you have the time. I will be sure to route it to our internal 
teams once you share.

Have a great weekend,
Matt

Matt Brender | Developer Advocacy Lead
Basho Technologies
t: 
@mjbrender


On Fri, Sep 18, 2015 at 2:28 PM, Christopher Meiklejohn 
> 
wrote:
Hi Muntasir,

I would probably submit a detailed pull request to Riak KV with the
changes, and a proper way to verify they work correctly.

Thanks,
Chris


On Fri, Sep 18, 2015 at 11:15 AM, Rahman, Muntasir Raihan
> wrote:
> Hi Chris,
>
> We made changes to Riak KV repository to add a control knob. The adaptive 
> control mechanism is a separate middleware layer which uses the control knob 
> we added to Riak KV. In addition to that we wrote a Riak YCSB connector, 
> which is also not part of the Riak code base.
>
> Thanks
> Muntasir.
>
> -----Original Message-----
> From: Christopher Meiklejohn 
> [mailto:christopher.meiklej...@gmail.com]
> Sent: Friday, September 18, 2015 12:08 PM
> To: Rahman, Muntasir Raihan
> Cc: riak-users@lists.basho.com
> Subject: Re: Contributing to Riak code-base, adding patches for optional 
> useful features
>
> Hi Muntasir,
>
> What repositories did you modify to provide this functionality? Does it 
> exist purely as a middleware layer, or was any work done on Riak Core or KV?
>
> - Chris
>
>
> On Fri, Sep 18, 2015 at 9:57 AM, Rahman, Muntasir Raihan 
> > wrote:
>> Hi,
>>
>>
>>
>> I am a PhD student working on distributed key-value storage systems
>> like Riak. Recently we have built an adaptive middleware framework
>> which can continuously tune kv store configurations (e.g., via
>> existing tuning knobs, and newly added/proposed knobs) to meet
>> consistency/availability service level agreements under changing
>> network conditions. We have deployed our system on top of Riak via a
>> small amount of code change in Riak (which could be submitted as a
>> patch), so that kv store developers can automatically tune the system
>> to meet SLAs. Now we are interested to contribute to the Riak community by 
>> adding our code to the Riak code base via a patch.
>>
>>
>>
>> Can anyone kindly suggest how to go about this? Any suggestions would
>> be highly appreciated.
>>
>>
>>
>> Thanks
>>
>> Muntasir.
>>
>>
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

