---
title: "Re: Ansible galaxy roles only support three-year-old Ubuntu 12.04"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-05-27T22:42:07-0700
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16163"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16161"
author_name: "Toby Corkindale"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-05-27T22:42:07-0700
---


Hi guys,
I'm afraid I'm already wearing too many hats to pick up the role of
maintainer of the Ansible-riak repository. However, definitely happy to
help out a little.
I'll take a look at the dev-2.x branch and see what I have to change to
make it run on Ubuntu 14.04.

Cheers,
Toby


> > On 27 May 2015 at 18:34, Matthew Brender  wrote:
> >> Hey Toby,
> >>
> >> While I'm not thrilled our role is out of date, I'm excited to hear
> >> you care. We're actively looking for a maintainer of the Ansible Riak
> >> repo [1]. A quick review of the branching shows that it's a little
> >> wild west in there.
> >>
> >> If you're game to step up as the maintainer, I'd love to sync up with
> >> you. We have some great resources (people and existing code) and we're
> >> in need of someone who wants to curate them all.
> >>
> >> [1] https://github.com/basho-labs/ansible-riak
> >>
> >> Thanks,
> >>
> >> Matt Brender | Developer Advocacy Lead
> >> Basho Technologies
> >> t: @mjbrender
> >>
> >>
> >>
> >> On Wed, May 27, 2015 at 5:24 AM, Christopher Mancini <
> cmanc...@basho.com> wrote:
> >>> Hi Toby,
> >>>
> >>> I am actually working on a rewrite of the Galaxy role that we used to
> have
> >>> up there to be simpler and support all of the 2.x features of Riak.
> You can
> >>> access it here:
> https://github.com/basho-labs/ansible-riak/tree/dev-2.x
> >>>
> >>> I would greatly appreciate any feedback, suggestions as well as any
> >>> contributions you may have from your testing on Ubuntu / Debian, since
> I am
> >>> using it with CentOS7 and may not have time to test it with Ubuntu for
> a
> >>> little while still.
> >>>
> >>> Chris
> >>>
>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

