---
title: "Re: Riak Java Protobuf objects"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-01-21T10:04:32-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13431"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13429"
author_name: "Jon Brisbin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-01-21T10:04:32-08:00
---


Is the Protobuf interaction still enforced sequentially? e.g. responses only 
come in the order in which the corresponding request was sent and a long 
request will hold up the results of subsequent, but smaller requests? I guess 
the answer for parallelism is to simply use a pool of connections. How many per 
client are considered acceptable now that R16 has better non-blocking IO 
support? 


Thanks!

Jon Brisbin
http://about.me/jonbrisbin | Twitter: @JonBrisbin


On Tuesday, January 21, 2014 at 11:51 AM, Brian Roach wrote:

> Jon,
> 
> Yes, we released riak\_pb 2.0.0.11 to maven central for the new Riak
> Java Client v2.0 core preview (the all-new official async Riak Java
> client based on Netty[1]) we announced a couple weeks ago - it
> supports all the new Riak 2.0 functionality.
> 
> 
> com.basho.riak.protobuf
> riak-pb
> 2.0.0.11
> 
> 
> [1] - https://github.com/basho/riak-java-client/tree/master
> 
> On Tue, Jan 21, 2014 at 7:22 AM, Jon Brisbin  (mailto:j...@jbrisbin.com)> wrote:
> > Have the Riak Java Protobuf artifacts been updated to take advantage of Riak
> > 2.0 features yet?
> > 
> > I'd like to work some more on getting the Riaktor (Riak async Java client
> > based on Reactor [1]) up to Riak 2.0 functionality. Currently I'm using the
> > Protobuf artifact for the actual objects I need to do the interactions. I'm
> > handling all the network IO through Reactor/Netty and using the simple
> > codecs in Reactor.
> > 
> > If not, can I just generate the Java objects I need from the original
> > protobuf definitions?
> > 
> > [1] - https://github.com/reactor/reactor
> > 
> > 
> > Thanks!
> > 
> > Jon Brisbin | Reactor Project Lead
> > http://about.me/jbrisbin | @j\_brisbin
> > 
> > 
> > \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> > riak-users mailing list
> > riak-users@lists.basho.com (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
> > http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> > 
> 
> 
> 


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

