---
title: "Re: yokozuna Issues"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-02-19T12:29:43-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13672"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13670"
author_name: "Bryce Verdier"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-02-19T12:29:43-08:00
---



Hey Hector,

Thank you for looking into this, here is the response to 'java -version' 
on my machine:

java -version
java version "1.7.0\_51"
OpenJDK Runtime Environment (fedora-2.4.5.0.fc19-x86\_64 u51-b31)
OpenJDK 64-Bit Server VM (build 24.51-b03, mixed mode)

I've been meaning to try buiding from source to see if the problem 
cropped up again, just haven't had the time yet. (I noticed that I 
didn't have the same issue when I built from source on my archLinux 
desktop --2.0pre14 --. Not sure if its related, but I just wanted to 
make sure).


Thanks again for looking into this,

Bryce


On 02/19/2014 07:20 AM, Hector Castro wrote:

Bryce,

There appears to be an incompatibility with the JVM version you have
available on the system. Can you please provide the output of `java
-version`?

FWIW, we've been using Oracle JDK 7u25 internally for testing.

--
Hector


On Thu, Feb 13, 2014 at 12:07 PM, Bryce Verdier  wrote:

Thanks for the quick response Tom,

I was mostly trying to see if anyone else was has had similar issues and
might be able to propose a quick fix. Since that doesn't seem to be the case
here are clean log files from a failed startup with search=on in riak.conf.
This is an updated version of fedora19 (though I was able to reproduce on
clean install of Centos6.5), with 2pre11 installed.

Please let me know if there is anything else you want me to test or provide.
I'm happy to help.

Warm regards,
Bryce




On 02/12/2014 08:10 PM, Tom Santero wrote:

Hi Bryce,

If you share the errors you're seeing in the logs it might help us better
identify the issue you're running into.

Cheers,
Tom


On Thu, Feb 13, 2014 at 3:46 AM, Bryce  wrote:

Has anyone else had problems with a fresh install of RHEL6 or fedora 19,
riak2pre11, and turning search "on"?

The defaults start riak just fine on both distros. But when I change
search to "on" some of the log files get a fair amount of java related
errors (both with java installed and not... if that matters).I went looking
through the riak issues on github, but wasn't able to find anything. I
assume I'm missing some kind of dependency. I just can't seem to find my
problem or a fix anywhere.

Thanks in advance,
Bryce

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com




\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com




\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

