---
title: "Re: Bucket creation."
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-02-06T05:34:24-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10013"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg10011"
author_name: "OJ Reeves"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-02-06T05:34:24-08:00
---


I am not aware of the rules in bucket naming, I don't even know if there
are any or if they're documented anywhere. All I can say is that I wouldn't
personally use a forward-slash because it's an obvious conflict with other
areas of the system.

OJ

On Wed, Feb 6, 2013 at 10:44 PM, Kevin Burton wrote:

> The set properties method returns without error on the "illegally named"
> bucket as do all of the put operations. It is just the get properties
> operation that returns an error. If the bucket is indeed improperly named
> then the bug is in the operations that allow the bucket name. Right?
>
> On Feb 5, 2013, at 10:44 PM, Alexander Moore  wrote:
>
> I think the problem you are having here is that you are using an invalid
> bucket name.
>
> "buyseasons/products" would actually refer to a bucket/key pair. Riak
> doesn't have nested buckets.
>
> If you change your bucket name to "buyseasons-products" or
> "buyseasons%20products" it should work.
>
> As for the weird/misleading exception, I'll report it to CorrugatedIron.
>
> Thanks,
> Alex Moore
>
>
> I still have a question. Based on your input I modified the code slightly
>> as follows:
>>
>> \*\* \*\*
>>
>> RiakBucketProperties bucketProperties = new
>> RiakBucketProperties();\*\*\*\*
>>
>> bucketProperties.SetNVal(4);\*\*\*\*
>>
>> bucketProperties.SetSearch(true);\*\*\*\*
>>
>> bucketProperties.SetAllowMultiple(true);\*\*\*\*
>>
>> bucketProperties.SetWVal("all");\*\*\*\*
>>
>> bucketProperties.SetRVal("quorum");\*\*\*\*
>>
>> if (!client.SetBucketProperties("buyseasons/products",
>> bucketProperties).IsSuccess)\*\*\*\*
>>
>> {\*\*\*\*
>>
>> Console.WriteLine("Setting bucket properties failed");\*\*\*
>> \*
>>
>> }\*\*\*\*
>>
>> RiakResult riakBuckpropertiesResult =
>> client.GetBucketProperties("buyseasons/products", true);\*\*\*\*
>>
>> \*\* \*\*
>>
>> But I get a NullReferenceException\*\*\*\*
>>
>> \*\* \*\*
>>
>> at CorrugatedIron.Models.RiakBucketProperties.ReadQuorum(JObject props,
>> String key, Action`1 setter)\*\*\*\*
>>
>> at CorrugatedIron.Models.RiakBucketProperties..ctor(RiakRestResponse
>> response)\*\*\*\*
>>
>> at CorrugatedIron.RiakClient.GetBucketProperties(String bucket,
>> Boolean extended)\*\*\*\*
>>
>> . . . . .\*\*\*\*
>>
>> \*\* \*\*
>>
>> So the bucket should have been created when I set the properties. But
>> then I tried to read the properties back and I get the exception.\*\*\*\*
>>
>> \*\* \*\*
>>
>> \*From:\* Alexander Sicular [mailto:sicul...@gmail.com]
>> \*Sent:\* Tuesday, February 05, 2013 5:17 PM
>> \*To:\* Kevin Burton
>> \*Cc:\* riak-users
>> \*Subject:\* Re: Bucket creation.\*\*\*\*
>>
>> \*\* \*\*
>>
>> "buckets" are a virtual concept. you dont need to "create" them. just
>> write a key to any bucket. also by modifying the default bucket parameters,
>> by adding the search hook on a bucket, let's say, you are also "creating"
>> the bucket.\*\*\*\*
>>
>> \*\* \*\*
>>
>> -alexander\*\*\*\*
>>
>> \*\* \*\*
>>
>> On Tue, Feb 5, 2013 at 6:09 PM, Kevin Burton 
>> wrote:\*\*\*\*
>>
>> \*\*\*\*
>>
>> I have filed to find code that would create a bucket. It must be in the
>> past I have just put objects into a bucket and Riak must construct the
>> bucket if it does not exist. Now I would like to create the bucket and set
>> some properties on that bucket. But I don’t know how to create the bucket.
>> \*\*\*\*
>>
>> \*\*\*\*
>>
>> So I have code like:\*\*\*\*
>>
>> \*\*\*\*
>>
>> BuildProduct(source, destination);\*\*\*\*
>>
>> RiakObject value = new RiakObject("products",
>> keySku, JsonConvert.SerializeObject(destination))\*\*\*\*
>>
>> {\*\*\*\*
>>
>> ContentType = "application/json"\*\*\*\*
>>
>> };\*\*\*\*
>>
>> \*\*\*\*
>>
>> RiakResult response =
>> client.Put(value, new RiakPutOptions { W = 2 });\*\*\*\*
>>
>> \*\*\*\*
>>
>> But I would like to create the bucket and set properties on the bucket
>> before I put things into the bucket. Like:\*\*\*\*
>>
>> \*\*\*\*
>>
>> RiakResult riakBuckpropertiesResult =
>> client.GetBucketProperties("products", true);\*\*\*\*
>>
>> if (riakBuckpropertiesResult.IsSuccess)\*\*\*\*
>>
>> {\*\*\*\*
>>
>> riakBuckpropertiesResult.Value
>>
>
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>


-- 

OJ Reeves
+61 431 952 586
http://buffered.io/
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

