---
title: "Re: performance"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-08-01T21:51:37-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11864"
author_name: "Alexander Sicular"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-08-01T21:51:37-07:00
---


Wait, wait, wait. You disabled Azure's automated NSA duplication layer, ya? Oh, 
right...

-Alexander Sicular

@siculars

NSA & Co.: If/when you knock down my door, give me a minute to put my pants on.

On Aug 1, 2013, at 9:28 PM, Paul Ingalls  wrote:

> Couple of questions.
> 
> I have migrated my system to use Riak on the back end. I have setup a 1.4 
> cluster with 128 partitions on 7 nodes with LevelDB as the store. Each node 
> looks like:
> 
> Azure Large instance (4CPU 7GB RAM)
> data directory is on a RAID 0
> max files is set to 128
> async thread on the VM is 16
> everything else is defaults
> 
> I'm using the 1.4.1 java client, connecting via the protocol buffer cluster.
> 
> With this setup, I'm seeing poor throughput on my service load. I ran a test 
> for a bit and was seeing only a few gets/puts per second. And then when I 
> stopped the client two of the nodes crashed.
> 
> I'm very new with Riak, so I figure I'm doing something wrong. I saw a note 
> on the list earlier of someone getting well over 1000 puts per second, so I 
> know it can move pretty fast. 
> 
> What is a good strategy for troubleshooting?
> 
> How many fetch/update/store loops per second should I expect to see on a 
> cluster of this size?
> 
> Thanks!
> 
> Paul
> 
> Paul Ingalls
> Founder & CEO Fanzo
> p...@fanzo.me
> @paulingalls
> http://www.linkedin.com/in/paulingalls
> 
> 
> 
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

