---
title: "Re: Precommit hook function - no error log - how to debug?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2016-05-16T07:49:47-0700
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg17369"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg17342"
author_name: "Luke Bakken"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2016-05-16T07:49:47-0700
---


Hi Sanket,

Thanks for providing that information, this is the first time that the
"write\_once" bucket type property was mentioned.

If you set the precommit hook on a different bucket type where there
are \*no other\* custom bucket type properties set, does the precommit
hook run successfully?

--
Luke Bakken
Engineer
lbak...@basho.com

On Mon, May 16, 2016 at 7:17 AM, Sanket Agrawal
 wrote:
> Hi Luke,
>
> More on the precommit hook debugging I just did - I might have a handle on
> what the problem is. I took a cluster-info dump for all the nodes in the
> cluster. In the dump, precommit is set to [] for all the buckets in the
> cluster. The reason for that seems to be that the bucket type with
> "write-once" property where precommit hook is set, is not in the cluster
> somehow!
>
> The bucket type name is "test\_kv\_wo". Let us grep for it in cluster\_info.txt
> - it doesn't show up at all (another bucket type "test\_kv" shows up
> instead):
>>
>> $ grep test\_kv cluster\_info.txt | sort -u
>> [[{bucket,<<"test\_kv">>}|
>> {name,<<"test\_kv">>},
>
>
> Now, let us verify we can get the props for the bucket type fine from curl:
>>
>> $ curl localhost:8098/types/test\_kv\_wo/buckets/uuid\_log/props:
>>
>> {"props":{"name":"uuid\_log","active":true,"allow\_mult":true,"basic\_quorum":false,"big\_vclock":50,"chash\_keyfun":{"mod":"riak\_core\_util","fun":"chash\_std\_keyfun"},"claimant":"riak1@127.0.0.1","dvv\_enabled":true,"dw":"quorum","last\_write\_wins":false,"linkfun":{"mod":"riak\_kv\_wm\_link\_walker","fun":"mapreduce\_linkfun"},"n\_val":3,"name":"uuid\_log","notfound\_ok":true,"old\_vclock":86400,"postcommit":[],"pr":0,"precommit":[{"mod":"rtriggers","fun":"pre\_uuid"}],"pw":0,"r":"quorum","rw":"quorum","small\_vclock":50,"w":"quorum","write\_once":true,"young\_vclock":20}}
>
>
>
> So, the problem might be missing bucket types in the cluster since they
> don't show up in cluster-info at all? The same thing happens with LWW bucket
> type that I created, test\_kv\_lww. It doesn't show up either. CRDT bucket
> types show up fine.

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

