---
title: "Re: riak 2.0 pre11.1 doesn't start"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-03-17T15:58:28-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13822"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13821"
author_name: "Seth Thomas"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-03-17T15:58:28-07:00
---


I’d try using an updated build and let us know if it’s still an issue. My hunch 
is that it’ll still be the same issue if in fact there is some Erlang VM local 
or remote holding onto that name/IP. If you want to ping me directly with the 
configuration directory (etc) contents, logs, and OS version specifics I’ll see 
if I can reproduce.

On March 17, 2014 at 15:36:25, Buri Arslon (buri...@gmail.com) wrote:

Thanks, Seth.

No, I don't think there is something in my system that is using the same port. 
I rebooted and checked ips and all riak default ports were free. I started the 
old riak just to test. I stopped id and cleaned beam.smp, epmd, etc.

I didn't change anything in the configs. After installing riak with "make rel", 
I ran './rel/riak/bin/riak start' command. 

I had downloaded the source from basho.com. Maybe I need to use github one?

thanks,
Buriwoy


On Mon, Mar 17, 2014 at 4:16 PM, Seth Thomas  wrote:
Is there something else on the network trying to operate with the same name/IP? 
If you’d like I'm happy to look at the vm.args and app.config but I’m of the 
mind that there is something else in the environment that causing this error. 
That is to say I don’t agree with the assertion this is 2.0 specific. In the 
GitHub issue it was mentioned that there is an older version in play - is this 
other ring running while you’re firing up 2.0? 

Perhaps getting more information about the environment might help to figure out 
why you’re encountering this error.

On March 17, 2014 at 14:50:10, Buri Arslon (buri...@gmail.com) wrote:

Thanks, Michael.

I checked ports and made sure they were free. I even rebooted my server to 
start from clean. Didn't help.


On Mon, Mar 17, 2014 at 3:07 PM, Michael Dillon  
wrote:
Best way to do a quick check to see if Riak started OK is to run 

netstat -lnp

and see if something is listening on the Riak ports like 8089 or whatever you 
have changed it too. If something is listening, then the PID that is doing it 
is listed. Kill that PID and you have killed Riak and can start it normally.

Of course it is better to use the normal way for starting and stopping Riak, 
and never use the -9 option on kill.

Also, you really should be looking at log files to figure out problems. There 
are several in /var/log/riak

Actually, now that I think about it, you probably cannot run riak console if 
riak is already running. Either start riak using "riak console" INSTEAD OF riak 
start, or use riak attach to connect to an already running one. But the 
messages that have already been displayed will not reappear. Look in the logs. 



On Mon, Mar 17, 2014 at 1:58 PM, Buri Arslon  wrote:
Hi guys!

./riak start is giving me "wait\_for\_erlang" error. I had added a detailed info 
here: https://github.com/basho/riak/issues/512

any hints?

thanks,
Buriwoy

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com




--
PageFreezer.com
#200 - 311 Water Street
Vancouver,  BC  V6B 1B8

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

