---
title: "Re: Cluster Backup - cluster_meta"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2017-06-23T01:25:29-0700
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg18283"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg18282"
author_name: "Russell Brown"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2017-06-23T01:25:29-0700
---


Hi Mark,

The docs suggest you do. I don’t know what bad things happen if you don’t 
include it though. Cluster meta data is the gossip and storage subsystem for 
things like bucket-types and other internal riak metadata, you probably want it.

Cheers

Russell

On 23 Jun 2017, at 09:04, Mark Richard Thomas  wrote:

> Hello
> 
> I’m trying to create a cluster from backups, as per:
> 
> https://docs.basho.com/riak/kv/2.2.3/using/cluster-operations/backing-up/
> https://docs.basho.com/riak/kv/2.2.3/using/cluster-operations/changing-cluster-info/#clusters-from-backups
> 
> I’ve backup-up:
> 
> Bitcask /var/lib/riak/bitcask
> Ring /var/lib/riak/ring
> Configuration /etc/riak
> Cluster Metadata /var/lib/riak/cluster\_meta
> Search /var/lib/riak/yz
> 
> Do I need the ‘cluster\_meta’ folder?
> 
> Thanks
> 
> Mark
> Equifax Limited is registered in England with Registered No. 2425920. 
> Registered Office: Capital House, 25 Chapel Street, London NW1 5DS. Equifax 
> Limited is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
> Equifax Touchstone Limited is registered in Scotland with Registered No. 
> SC113401. Registered Office: Exchange Tower,19 Canning Street, Edinburgh, EH3 
> 8EH.
> Equifax Commercial Services Limited is registered in the Republic of Ireland 
> with Registered No. 215393. Registered Office: IDA Business & Technology 
> Park, Rosslare Road, Drinagh, Wexford.
> 
> This message contains information from Equifax which may be confidential and 
> privileged. If you are not an intended recipient, please refrain from any 
> disclosure, copying, distribution or use of this information and note that 
> such actions are prohibited. If you have received this transmission in error, 
> please notify by e-mail postmas...@equifax.com.
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

