---
title: "Re: Riak for streaming video"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-06-26T13:47:28-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14388"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14387"
author_name: "Hector Castro"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-06-26T13:47:28-07:00
---


Hey Alex,

My response are inline below.

--
Hector


On Thu, Jun 26, 2014 at 4:26 PM, Alex De la rosa
 wrote:
> Hi Hector,
>
> I see, I always thought that Riak CS was the same as Riak just that you run
> it in Amazon S3... they are actually different...

Correct, but it is important to note that Riak is still at the core of Riak CS.

> So... if I have a social network and one of the features is that they can
> share video, I would use a normal Riak cluster for the webapp and data and a
> Riak CS cluster for the video storage/streaming... am I right?

That seems like a reasonable conclusion.

Riak is fundamentally a distributed key/value store for low latency
access to smaller pieces of data. Riak CS is an S3/Swift
API-compatible object storage platform with a little higher request
latency, but also the added ability to house very large objects
(backups, raw images, video).

> By the way, couldn't this "range header" be implemented in standard Riak?
> might be a good thing to have so you don't need 2 clusters for this matter.

It could some day. Right now, separating the clusters is best because
tuning a single cluster for both use cases would be difficult.

> Thanks,
> Alex
>
>
> On Thu, Jun 26, 2014 at 9:28 PM, Hector Castro  wrote:
>>
>> Hi Alex,
>>
>> For this type of problem, you may want to look into Riak CS. [0] It is
>> an object storage platform built on top of Riak.
>>
>> When you GET an object from Riak CS, you can specify a Range header to
>> get the object by its byte offset. [1]
>>
>> --
>> Hector
>>
>> [0] http://docs.basho.com/riakcs/latest/
>> [1]
>> http://docs.basho.com/riakcs/latest/references/apis/storage/s3/RiakCS-GET-Object/#Examples
>>
>> On Thu, Jun 26, 2014 at 3:22 PM, Alex De la rosa
>>  wrote:
>> > Hi there,
>> >
>> > Imagine that I want to use Riak for a video service like Youtube and I
>> > save
>> > the video file in Riak... is there a way to stream the contents of 1
>> > key? I
>> > know we can stream keys... but what about its content?
>> >
>> > It would be pretty troublesome to have to wait for the full data to be
>> > downloaded $bucket->get('myvideo') to be able to serve it... as they can
>> > be
>> > pretty big files.
>> >
>> > Is there any recommendation to store/get big files like videos? or it
>> > would
>> > be better to use some other system than Riak for the job?
>> >
>> > Thanks,
>> > Alex
>> >
>> > \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> > riak-users mailing list
>> > riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> > http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>> >
>
>

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

