---
title: "RE: CorrugatedIron - incorrect version of protobuf-net?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-06-22T00:53:24-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14340"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14339"
author_name: "Bond, Dave A"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-06-22T00:53:24-07:00
---


Thanks for the rapid response, OJ. That's fixed my problem!

Cheers,

Dave

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
From: OJ Reeves [o...@buffered.io]
Sent: 22 June 2014 02:53
To: Bond, Dave A; riak-users@lists.basho.com
Subject: Re: CorrugatedIron - incorrect version of protobuf-net?

Your error message shows that CI expects a a minimum version of 2.0.0.640 for 
protobuf and you’re using version 2.0.0.602.

The short answer is to update protobuf-net to a version greater than or equal 
to the required one. See here: http://www.nuget.org/packages/protobuf-net/ it’s 
up to version 2.0.0.668. Get latest on this library and it should be fine.

The reason there’s a minimum version number specified is to make sure that CI 
doesn’t break with out of date libs. We’d rather have compiler errors than 
runtime errors or data corruption issues.

Cheers.
OJ

--
OJ Reeves | @TheColonial | +61 431 952 586 | 
http://buffered.io/
PGP 4096R/1FAA5749 | 4EAE 350E 13FE 7584 FFC8 B97D 49EE E751 1FAA 5749


On 21 June 2014 at 23:50:56, Bond, Dave A 
(d.a.b...@hw.ac.uk) wrote:

Hello, everyone.

Pay attention, there's lots of version numbers below :-)

Riak: 1.4.8-0-g7545390
Hosting OS: CentOS 6.5
IDE: Monodevelop 4.2.3
CorrugatedIron: 1.4.2 (obtained through the Monodevelop Nuget plugin)

I've written a very simple C# console program to test CorrugatedIron -> Riak 
connectivity but when I try to build it I get an error message indicating that 
the version of protobuf-net being referenced by CorrugatedIron (2.0.0.640) is 
higher than the version that was imported with CorrugatedIron (2.0.0.602). 
Has anyone else come across this problem? Any ideas how to fix it?

Full error message: Error CS1705: Assembly `CorrugatedIron, Version=1.4.2.0, 
Culture=neutral, PublicKeyToken=fb1ec7de601674df' references `protobuf-net, 
Version=2.0.0.640, Culture=neutral, PublicKeyToken=257b51d87d2e4d67' which has 
a higher version number than imported assembly `protobuf-net, 
Version=2.0.0.602, Culture=neutral, PublicKeyToken=257b51d87d2e4d67' (CS1705) 
(CI\_Riak\_test)

Sorry if this is a noob question but I'm still finding my way with a) CentOS, 
b) Riak, c) Monodevelop, d) C# ... so I need all the help I can get!

Cheers,

Dave

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

Sunday Times Scottish University of the Year 2011-2013
Top in the UK for student experience
Fourth university in the UK and top in Scotland (National Student Survey 2012)

We invite research leaders and ambitious early career researchers to join us in 
leading and driving research in key inter-disciplinary themes. Please see 
www.hw.ac.uk/researchleaders for further information and how to apply.

Heriot-Watt University is a Scottish charity registered under charity number 
SC000278.
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com


----- 
Sunday Times Scottish University of the Year 2011-2013
Top in the UK for student experience
Fourth university in the UK and top in Scotland (National Student Survey 2012)


We invite research leaders and ambitious early career researchers to 
join us in leading and driving research in key inter-disciplinary themes. 
Please see www.hw.ac.uk/researchleaders for further information and how
to apply.

Heriot-Watt University is a Scottish charity
registered under charity number SC000278.

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

