---
title: "RE: Using Bucket Data Types slowed insert performance"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-10-20T10:41:57-0700
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16677"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16676"
author_name: "Dennis Nicolay"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-10-20T10:41:57-0700
---


Hi Alexander,

 

I’m parsing the file and storing each row with own key in a map datatype bucket 
and each column is a register. 

 

Thanks,

Dennis

 

From: Alexander Sicular [mailto:sicul...@gmail.com] 
Sent: Tuesday, October 20, 2015 10:34 AM
To: Dennis Nicolay
Cc: Christopher Mancini; riak-users@lists.basho.com
Subject: Re: Using Bucket Data Types slowed insert performance

 

Hi Dennis,

 

It's a bit unclear what you are trying to do here. Are you 1. uploading the 
entire file and saving it to one key with the value being the file? Or are you 
2. parsing the file and storing each row as a register in a map? 

 

Either of those approaches are not appropriate in Riak KV. For the first case I 
would point you to Riak S2 which is designed to manage large binary object 
storage. You can keep the large file as a single addressable entity and access 
it via Amazon S3 or Swift protocol. For the second case I would consider 
maintaining one key (map) per row in the file and have a register per column in 
the row. Or not use Riak data types (maps, sets, registers, flags and counters) 
and simply keep each row in the file as a KV in Riak either as a raw string or 
as a serialized json string. ETL'ing out of relational databases and into Riak 
is a very common use case and often implemented in the fashion I described. 

 

As Chris mentioned, soft upper bound on value size should be 1MB. I say soft 
because we won't enforce it although there are settings in the config that can 
be changed to enforce it (default 5MB warning, 50MB reject I believe.) 

Best,

Alexander





@siculars

http://siculars.posthaven.com

 

Sent from my iRotaryPhone


On Oct 20, 2015, at 10:22, Christopher Mancini  > wrote:

Hi Dennis,

I am not the most experienced, but what I do know is that a file that size 
causes a great deal of network chatter because it has to handoff that data to 
the other nodes in the network and will cause delays in Riak's ability to send 
and confirm consistency across the ring. Typically we recommend that you try to 
structure your objects to around 1mb or less to ensure consistent performance. 
That max object size can vary of course based on your network / server specs 
and configuration.

I hope this helps.

Chris

 

On Tue, Oct 20, 2015 at 8:18 AM Dennis Nicolay  > wrote:

Hi,

 

I’m using .net RiakClient 2.0 to insert a 44mb delimited file with 139k rows of 
data into riak. I switched to a map bucket data type with registers. It is 
taking about 3 times longer to insert into this bucket vs non data typed 
bucket. Any suggestions?

 

Thanks in advance,

Dennis

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com  
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com  
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

