---
title: "Re: Question about counters"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-06-30T00:19:23-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14414"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14411"
author_name: "Alex De la rosa"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-06-30T00:19:23-07:00
---


A "set" may not be a good solution if you have many counters getting
updated at once and you should do the sorting (if possible) before saving
the "set" back into RIAK.

The goal scoring was a very simple/small example... but imagine you want to
do Twitter's Trending Topics counting which twits has more comments (if we
have a "comments" counter)... will be too massive to save it all in a "set".

I guess that MapReduce will be the way in this case.

Cheers,
Alex


On Mon, Jun 30, 2014 at 12:14 AM, Alexander Sicular 
wrote:

> Not that I know of. I believe keys are independent in this regard. Basho
> is introducing sets in riak 2.0 but I don't think they will bee sorted sets
> like in redis.
>
> -Alexander
>
> @siculars
> http://siculars.posthaven.com
>
> Sent from my iRotaryPhone
>
> On Jun 29, 2014, at 15:54, Alex De la rosa 
> wrote:
>
> Hi there,
>
> I have a question about something that just came up to my mind... can we
> determine which counter is higher in a bucket? For example:
>
> # Taking the FIFA World Cup as example:
>
> bucket = client.bucket\_type('counter\_bucket').bucket('goals')
> counter = bucket.new('Neymar')
> counter.increment(4)
> counter = bucket.new('Messi')
> counter.increment(4)
> counter = bucket.new('JamesRodriguez')
> counter.increment(5)
>
> Is there any way (without using MapReduce) to get the top scorer of the
> World Cup? or a descendent ordered list of the keys by its value?
>
> Cheers,
> Alex
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

