---
title: "Re: Undiagnosed High FSM Time"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2016-01-27T01:24:12-0800
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16991"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16990"
author_name: "Richard Jonas"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2016-01-27T01:24:12-0800
---


You may want to monitor
- node\_put\_fsm\_rejected (and get, too) to if overload protection rejected
put or get requests
- node\_put\_fsm\_active, node\_put\_fsm\_active\_60s (to see how many active put
requests are being served now and in the last minute) there is metrics for
get, too. A spike of those metrics can show you a hint that something
unusual happens.

A big object can cause a lot of put fsms, since big object can cause
head-of-line-blocking inside the cluster. So the problem is not with
serving the get/put for the big objects, but the puts/gets coming after
that. Like during driving pushing a hard brake won't cause you traffic jam,
but the others behind you.

On Tue, Jan 26, 2016 at 10:43 PM, Alex Wolfe 
wrote:

> Thanks for your reply.
>
> We are. We sort of expected an anomaly in the object size, but there was
> none. We found the root cause. It was a large number of additions to a
> single set. It’s not clear to me which metric reveals that problem, but it
> appears as though object size doesn’t.
>
> Alex
>
>
> > On Jan 26, 2016, at 3:40 PM, Luke Bakken  wrote:
> >
> > Hi Alex -
> >
> > Are you monitoring any of Riak's statistics? Specifically object size
> > and sibling count, though all of the stats are useful.
> >
> > --
> > Luke Bakken
> > Engineer
> > lbak...@basho.com
> >
> > On Tue, Jan 26, 2016 at 11:40 AM, Alex Wolfe 
> wrote:
> >> We have a 5 node Riak cluster running 2.1.1. This morning FSM Time
> (99th percentile) went way up. We couldn't find any clear signs of trouble
> with the cluster and ultimately chose to move the data files and restart
> the nodes. Once we started with an empty DB, the FSM Time normalized. But
> now it's headed back up again. We're stumped on how to trouble shoot this
> issue. Any suggestions?
> >> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> >> riak-users mailing list
> >> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> >> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>



-- 
Richard Jonas
Erlang Solutions Hungary Kft

Address:
 Riverpark Office K.32
 Közraktár street 32. 3/1.
 1093 Budapest
 Hungary
Phone/fax:
 +36-1-7000-654
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

