---
title: "Re: Deleted keys come back"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-10-07T17:12:17-0700
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16629"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16617"
author_name: "Kota Uenishi"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-10-07T17:12:17-0700
---


I'd also recommend to have "allow\_mult" as true to prevent
resurrection caused by sloppy quorum, handoffs or any network
separation. Also, to make sure your data eventually consistent, R+W
should be > N. Your case is 1+1, not >2.

On Wed, Oct 7, 2015 at 10:19 PM, Dmitri Zagidulin  wrote:
> Hello,
>
> There are two things going on here: the W quorum value of the write and
> delete operations, and possibly the delete\_mode setting.
>
> Let's walk through the scenario.
> You're writing to a 2 node cluster, two copies of each object (n\_val=2),
> with your write quorum of 1 (W=1).
>
> So that's possibility #1 -- there's no guarantee that your writes succeed
> with both replicas. (It could've just written one, and the other one is
> missing).
>
> Then you're doing a List Keys (to delete the objects), which runs with an
> implicit quorum of R=1. (Meaning, it only contacts half of the replicas, and
> lists them.) So (if possibility #1 happened, above) the list keys could have
> not returned some keys, the first time around. (Because it may have
> contacted the partitions that had missing replicas). Then you deleted, ran
> another List Keys, and that one could have returned the keys that it missed
> the first time.
>
> Possibility #2 -- your deletes are using W=1, meaning, they're only waiting
> for the delete operation from 1 replica to respond, before returning
> success. So, it's possible that a delete operation removed just one replica,
> but the second one still exists. And the second List Keys can now pick up
> the not-deleted replica.
>
> Possibility #3 -- by default, the delete\_mode is set to keep deleted objects
> for 3 seconds. So, if you ran your deletes, and then re-ran a List Keys
> before the 3 seconds expired, you could pick up some keys.
>
> The upshot of all this is:
> - Use W=2 when writing and deleting. (That is, your W value should be the
> same as your N value).
>
> - If that doesn't work, set delete\_mode to 'immediate' in the config.
> Specifically, delete\_mode is set in the advanced.config file
> (http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/ops/advanced/configs/configuration-files/#Advanced-Configuration
> ). So, my advanced.config file looks like this:
>
> [
> {riak\_kv,
> [
> {delete\_mode, immediate}
> ]}
> }
> ].
>
> Also, if you're deleting things for unit tests, there's an easier way.
> Instead of deleting the bucket object-by-object, you can just stop the node,
> and clear the bitcask (or leveldb) data directory. (That's going to get rid
> of all the data in the cluster, which is what you want to do for unit tests
> anyways.)
>
> You can learn more about these topics on the following pages:
> \* http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/ops/advanced/deletion/
> \*
> http://lists.basho.com/pipermail/riak-users\_lists.basho.com/2011-October/006048.html
> (mailing list post introducing delete\_mode)
> \* http://basho.com/posts/technical/riaks-config-behaviors-part-3/ (the
> Tombstones section)
>
> Dmitri
>
>
>
>
> On Wed, Oct 7, 2015 at 1:35 PM, mtakahashi-ivi 
> wrote:
>>
>> Hello,
>>
>> I'm using riak KV in 2 nodes cluster.
>> I inserted hundreds of key/value pair and deleted all keys in a bucket.
>> After above process, I can get some keys if I get list of keys in the
>> bucket.
>> Why those keys remain? How do I delete keys reliably?
>> If I increase number of nodes to 5 , I can delete all keys in the bucket
>> as
>> same way as I did.
>> My bucket property is the following.
>>
>> ----------------------
>> {
>> "props": {
>> "name": "BUCKET\_A",
>> "active": true,
>> "allow\_mult": false,
>> "basic\_quorum": false,
>> "big\_vclock": 50,
>> "chash\_keyfun": {
>> "mod": "riak\_core\_util",
>> "fun": "chash\_std\_keyfun"
>> },
>> "claimant": "riak@172.17.0.171",
>> "dvv\_enabled": true,
>> "dw": "quorum",
>> "last\_write\_wins": false,
>> "linkfun": {
>> "mod": "riak\_kv\_wm\_link\_walker",
>> "fun": "mapreduce\_linkfun"
>> },
>> "n\_val": 2,
>> "notfound\_ok": false,
>> "old\_vclock": 86400,
>> "postcommit": [],
>> "pr": 0,
>> "precommit": [],
>> "pw": 0,
>> "r": 1,
>> "rw": "quorum",
>> "search\_index": "BUCKET\_A\_INDEX",
>> "small\_vclock": 50,
>> "w": 1,
>> "young\_vclock": 20
>> }
>> }
>>
>>
>> Masanori Takahashi
>>
>>
>>
>> --
>> View this message in context:
>> http://riak-users.197444.n3.nabble.com/Deleted-keys-come-back-tp4033536.html
>> Sent from the Riak Users mailing list archive at Nabble.com.
>>
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>



-- 
Kota UENISHI / @kuenishi
Basho Japan KK

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

