---
title: "Re: Start up problem talking to Riak"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2017-02-13T07:34:12-0800
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg17971"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg17965"
author_name: "Alexander Sicular"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2017-02-13T07:34:12-0800
---


Please don't do that. Don't point the internet at your database. Have them 
communicate amongst each other on internal ips and route the public through a 
proxy / middleware. 

-Alexander 

@siculars
http://siculars.posthaven.com

Sent from my iRotaryPhone

> On Feb 13, 2017, at 04:00, AWS  wrote:
> 
> I know that this isn't directly a Riak issue but I am sure that some of you 
> have met this before and can maybe help me. I am used to Macs and Windows but 
> have now set up an Ubuntu 14.04LTS server on my home network. I have 5 fixed 
> IP addresses so the server has its own external address. I have opened port 
> 8098 on my router to point at the server and checked that ufw isn't running. 
> I have tested with it running ufw and with 'allow 8098' applied. I still 
> cannot connect to Riak. On the same computer I get a pong back to a ping so 
> Riak seems to be OK.
> 
> I have a Riak server running on AWS and had trouble setting that up until I, 
> eventually, opened all ports.
> 
> Can anyone please suggest some steps that I might take? I need this running 
> for an Open University course that I am studying. My AWS free server runs out 
> before the course finishes so I have to get this up and running soon.
> Thanks in advance.
> David
> 
> Message sent using Winmail Mail Server
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

