---
title: "Re: bucket props question"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-12-11T12:40:45-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13218"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13215"
author_name: "Jordan West"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-12-11T12:40:45-08:00
---


Hi Bryce,

Unfortunately Riak 2.0 final is not yet available but I would be curious to
know if the upcoming Bucket Types [1] [2] feature would help you model your
problem. You could create a Bucket Type for your allow\_mult=true projects
and another for lww=true. so you would have something like (extending the
notation you used in your email):

\* bucket\_types/allowsibs/buckets/project-year-month-day/keys/key
\* bucket\_types/nosibs/buckets/project-year-month-day/keys/key

where "allowsibs" and "nosibs" are the two bucket types, respectively.

Cheers,

Jordan

[1]
http://lists.basho.com/pipermail/riak-users\_lists.basho.com/2013-November/013847.html
[2] https://github.com/basho/riak/issues/362


On Wed, Dec 11, 2013 at 11:45 AM, Tom Santero  wrote:

> Hi Bryce,
>
> You generally want to avoid creating too many buckets with custom bucket
> properties, as this gets stored in Riak's ring data. A large number of
> custom buckets will degrade cluster performance.
>
> Is there any reason why you don't just create two buckets, with the
> desired LWW/allow\_mult=true settings and then prepend the timestamp to your
> key?
>
> Tom
>
>
> On Wed, Dec 11, 2013 at 1:47 PM, Bryce Verdier wrote:
>
>> Hi All,
>>
>> Is it at all possible to have default bucket props be based on the bucket
>> names? I ask because I'm trying to use Riak to store key/value data and use
>> the buckets to separate the data based on day and for a couple of different
>> projects, for example:
>>
>> buckets/project-year-month-day/key
>>
>> The issue becomes I have one project that needs 'allow\_mult' to true, and
>> another that needs 'last\_write\_wins' set to true (requiring that
>> 'allow\_mult' be false). So using the default\_buckets\_props will only get me
>> half way there.
>>
>> Does anyone know of a way I can do this? The only solution I can think of
>> off the top of my head is to create a cron job that creates the bucket
>> sooner than when the clients start writing to it.
>>
>> Thank you in advance,
>>
>> Bryce
>>
>> PS -- can anyone tell me what:
>> {multi\_backend\_prefix\_list, [{<<"0b:">>, be\_blocks}]}}
>> does?
>>
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>
>
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

