---
title: "Re: Pending handoff when node offline"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2016-01-05T08:14:51-0800
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16918"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16917"
author_name: "Magnus Kessler"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2016-01-05T08:14:51-0800
---


On 5 January 2016 at 10:07, Daniel Iwan  wrote:

> Hi all
>
> Am I right thinking that when node goes offline \*riak-admin transfers\* will
> always show transfers to be done? E.g.
>
> riak-admin transfers
> Attempting to restart script through sudo -H -u riak
> [sudo] password for myuser:
> Nodes ['riak@10.173.240.12'] are currently down.
> 'riak@10.173.240.9' waiting to handoff 18 partitions
> 'riak@10.173.240.11' waiting to handoff 13 partitions
> 'riak@10.173.240.10' waiting to handoff 13 partitions
>
> Active Transfers:
>
>
> Node 'riak@10.173.240.12' could not be contacted
>
>
> Even when I mark node as down with \*riak-admin down\* transfers are still
> waiting.
> Is that normal?
>

> The reason I ask is because our services before they start are checking if
> all transfers are complete (normal process during riak startup). This is
> because in the past we've had issues with using 2i queries when Riak.
>
> Unfortunately this means that after e.g. reboot our services won't start
> until timeout expires or missing node comes back and handoff finishes.
>
> Maybe there is a better way to check if Riak cluster is ready for 2i
> queries?
> We are still on Riak 1.3.1
>
> Regards
> Daniel
>


Hi Daniel,

this behaviour is completely normal and expected. As part of the high
availability capabilities of Riak, when a target VNode is not available to
write data to other Nodes will spin up fallback VNodes that temporarily
store incoming data. These will show up in the "riak-admin transfers"
output as partitions waiting to be handed off. The presence of partition
handoffs does not automatically mean that a Node is not capable of handling
queries and is therefore not a good indicator for your use case.

You may want to use "riak-admin wait-for-service riak\_kv " to
detect that a restarted node is capable of handling requests again. See
http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/ops/running/tools/riak-admin/#wait-for-service
for more details.

Regards,

Magnus

-- 
Magnus Kessler
Client Services Engineer
Basho Technologies Limited

Registered Office - 8 Lincoln’s Inn Fields London WC2A 3BP Reg 07970431
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

