---
title: "Riak-CS Not Inheriting Permissions?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-10-02T12:12:18-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14981"
author_name: "Valenti, Anthony"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-10-02T12:12:18-07:00
---


We are running Riak-CS on version 1.4.8.
Here is the situation. We have a bucket that is owned by Acct1 that has 
folders in it. Acct2 has been granted all permissions to the bucket and all 
sub-folders.
Acct2 puts a file in one of the subfolders, but Acct1 has no permissions at all 
for the file.
Acct1 puts a file in the same folder and Acct2 automatically has all of the 
same permissions to the file as it has to the parent folder.
Why is it working this way and how do I get it to inherit permissions 
automatically?

Thanks,
Anthony


\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*

Inmar Confidentiality Note:  This e-mail and any attachments are confidential 
and intended to be viewed and used solely by the intended recipient.  If you 
are not the intended recipient, be aware that any disclosure, dissemination, 
distribution, copying or use of this e-mail or any attachment is prohibited.  
If you received this e-mail in error, please notify us immediately by returning 
it to the sender and delete this copy and all attachments from your system and 
destroy any printed copies.  Thank you for your cooperation.

Notice of Protected Rights:  The removal of any copyright, trademark, or 
proprietary legend contained in this e-mail or any attachment is prohibited 
without the express, written permission of Inmar, Inc.  Furthermore, the 
intended recipient must maintain all copyright notices, trademarks, and 
proprietary legends within this e-mail and any attachments in their original 
form and location if the e-mail or any attachments are reproduced, printed or 
distributed.

\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

