---
title: "Re: Data population of Yokozuna on key-path in schema?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-07-18T09:19:36-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11597"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg11582"
author_name: "Dave Martorana"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-07-18T09:19:36-07:00
---


Does the JSON extractor work in a similar fashion, or does it follow its
own rules? We don’t use XML anywhere (but JSON everywhere). Thanks!

Dave


On Thu, Jul 18, 2013 at 9:31 AM, Ryan Zezeski  wrote:

> As Eric said, the XML extractor causes the nested elements to become
> concatenated by an underscore. "Extractor" is a Yokozuna term. It is the
> process by which a Riak Object is mapped to a Solr document. In the case
> of a Riak Object whose value is XML the XML is flattened by a)
> concatenating nested elements with '\_' and b) concatenating attributes with
> '@' (this can be changed if necessary, just ask). Yokozuna provides a
> resource to test how a given object would be extracted.
>
> curl -X PUT -i -h 'content-type: application/xml' 'http://host:port/extract'
> --data-binary @some.xml
>
> This will return a JSON representation of the field-values extracted from
> the object. You can use a json pretty printer like jsonpp to make it
> easier to read.
>
> -Z
>
>
>
>
> On Wed, Jul 17, 2013 at 8:51 PM, Eric Redmond  wrote:
>
>> That's correct. The XML extractor nests by element name, separating
>> elements by an underscore.
>>
>> Eric
>>
>> On Jul 17, 2013, at 12:46 PM, Dave Martorana  wrote:
>>
>> Hi,
>>
>> I realize I may be way off-base, but I noticed the following slide in
>> Ryan’s recent Ricon East talk on Yokozuna:
>>
>> http://cl.ly/image/3s1b1v2w2x12
>>
>> Does the schema pick out values based on key-path automatically? For
>> instance,
>>
>> val...
>>
>> automatically gets mapped to the “commit\_repo" field definition for the
>> schema?
>>
>> Thanks!
>>
>> Dave
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>
>>
>>
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>
>>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

