---
title: "Re: How to index List in riak so that it will available for	solr"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2016-04-22T07:09:12-0700
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg17252"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg17251"
author_name: "Fred Dushin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2016-04-22T07:09:12-0700
---


Hi Anil,

Thanks for your question.

Riak uses the HTTP interface for inserting data into Solr, not Solrj. We do 
not therefore support indexing POJOs -- they must be translated to a form that 
is consumable by the HTTP interface (internally we use JSON, but Riak natively 
supports several structured data formats).

You can write your own extractors [1] for transforming opaque data structures 
into structured data, but these are written in Erlang executed in the 
Riak/Erlang abstract machine (BEAM). It would likely pose a technical 
challenge to write a POJO extractor in Erlang, and you might be better off 
doing this outside of the BEAM, say, in Java, using reflection or some tool 
that translates Java objects to structured data (XML/JSON). JAX-B comes to 
mind as one potential avenue, though that requires a fairly heavy investment in 
XML-schema, code generation, and so forth, though the Java world is pretty rich 
with tools for managing all of that.

I hope that answers your question.

-Fred

[1] http://docs.basho.com/riak/kv/2.1.4/developing/usage/search/#extractors


> On Apr 22, 2016, at 1:48 AM, Anil Chandgude(HO) 
>  wrote:
> 
> 
> 
> Hi all,
> 
> We use \*\_s for String type, \*\_i for Integers and so on for single 
> value fields.
> \*\_ss for List, \*\_ls for List nd so on.
> Now I have condition where I want to store List of class like this 
> List . How to do this ?
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

