---
title: "Re: Announcing riak-scala-client 0.8.0"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-03-19T22:09:14-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10481"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg10465"
author_name: "Mark Phillips"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-03-19T22:09:14-07:00
---


Thanks for the info, Age. It sounds like you're about to have some
fun. :) Keep us posted.

Mark
twitter.com/pharkmillups

On Mon, Mar 18, 2013 at 12:17 PM, Age Mooij  wrote:
> Hi Mark,
>
> I've been testing this on a customer project that is not in production yet so 
> most of the tire-kicking so far has been done in development, unit testing, 
> acceptance testing, and some limited load testing. We're currently working on 
> much heavier load tests that should put some pressure on the client.
>
> The project runs with the eLevelDB backend and has some limited 2i usage so 
> far. No map reduce or link walking yet, which also explains why they are 
> still missing from the feature set.
>
> As for me, stress/load testing and benchmarking are high on the agenda for 
> the near future so hopefully I can publish some numbers soon. I'm very 
> curious about how it compares with Raiku ;)
>
> Age
>
>
> On Mar 18, 2013, at 16:02, Mark Phillips  wrote:
>
>> Hi Age,
>>
>> Thanks for sending this along. It looks awesome. And nice work on the
>> docs, too. :)
>>
>>> This is the first public release but I've been testing it on a large project
>>> since January and it was time to let other people kick the tires and tell me
>>> what I did wrong (or right).
>>
>> Any chance you can give any details on how you kicked the tires and
>> how it's being used in production? I would be interested to know what
>> hoops you made it jump through. :)
>>
>> Thanks again. Nice work.
>>
>> Mark
>> twitter.com/pharkmillups
>>
>>
>>
>> On Sun, Mar 17, 2013 at 5:23 PM, Age Mooij  wrote:
>>> Hi
>>>
>>> After three months of hacking, I'm proud to announce a new Riak Scala client
>>> library based on Akka and Spray and simply called riak-scala-client. It aims
>>> to be easy to use, non-blocking, and fast, in that order.
>>>
>>> http://riak.scalapenos.com/
>>>
>>> This is the first public release but I've been testing it on a large project
>>> since January and it was time to let other people kick the tires and tell me
>>> what I did wrong (or right).
>>>
>>> The client is purely based on the http API and currently it supports the
>>> following Riak features:
>>>
>>> - Fetch
>>> - Store
>>> - Delete
>>> - Secondary Indexes (2i)
>>> - Fetching exact matches
>>> - Fetching ranges
>>> - Storing with indexes
>>> - Getting/setting bucket properties
>>> - ping
>>>
>>> Other features include:
>>>
>>> - Completely non-blocking thanks to Scala 2.10 Futures, Akka, and Spray
>>> - Transparent integration with Akka projects through an Akka extension
>>> - An untyped RiakValue class for interacting with raw Riak values and their
>>> associated
>>> meta data (vclock, etag, content type, last modified time, indexes, etc.)
>>> - A typed RiakMeta[T] class for interacting with deserialized values while
>>> retaining
>>> their associated meta data (vclock, etag, content type, last modified
>>> time, indexes, etc.)
>>> - Customizable conflict resolution on all fetches (and stores when
>>> returnbody=true)
>>> - Automatic (de)serialization of Scala (case) classes using type classes
>>> - builtin spray-json (de)serializers
>>> - Automatic indexing of Scala (case) classes using type classes
>>> - Auto-retry of fetches and stores (a standard feature of the underlying
>>> spray-client library)
>>>
>>> The following Riak (http) API features are still missing and will follow
>>> soon:
>>>
>>> - Link walking
>>> - Map Reduce
>>> - Listing all keys in a bucket
>>> - Listing all buckets
>>> - Conditional fetch/store semantics (i.e. If-None-Match and If-Match for
>>> ETags and
>>> If-Modified-Since and If-Unmodified-Since for LastModified)
>>> - Node Status
>>>
>>> Check it out at: http://riak.scalapenos.com/
>>>
>>> Cheers,
>>> Age
>>>
>>>
>>>
>>>
>>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>>> riak-users mailing list
>>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>>
>

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

