---
title: "Re: is it possible to connect to a remote Riak cluster with Riak	console"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-04-07T11:19:04-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10739"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg10730"
author_name: "Tom Zeng"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-04-07T11:19:04-07:00
---


Hi Sean,

I got error using erl -remsh, same thing happended when I tried to ssh to
the riak server (riak is in /usr/sbin and user does not have sudo
privilege):

erl -remsh riak@ -setcookie riak
Erlang R15B01 (erts-5.9.1) [source] [64-bit] [async-threads:0] [hipe]
[kernel-poll:false]

\*\*\* ERROR: Shell process terminated! (^G to start new job) \*\*\*

same happened with erl -remsh riak@localhost -setcookie riak on the riak
server

Thanks,
Tom




On Sat, Apr 6, 2013 at 11:41 AM, Tom Zeng  wrote:

> Thanks very much for the info Sean, will give that a try, dont' know about
> the cookie setting on the server yet, will find that out.
>
> Tom
>
>
> On Fri, Apr 5, 2013 at 10:10 AM, Sean Cribbs  wrote:
>
>> Tom,
>>
>> You can do it like this (assuming -setcookie riak is in your vm.args):
>>
>> erl -remsh riak@ -setcookie riak
>>
>> That will give you an Erlang shell connected to the remote node, but
>> do note that a few things are different:
>>
>> 1) You should use "Ctrl-G q" to quit the console.
>> 2) You will not receive log messages from lager in the console.
>> 3) If the network becomes bogged down, from load or connectivity
>> issues, you might have decreased responsiveness from the shell.
>>
>> On Fri, Apr 5, 2013 at 7:02 AM, Tom Zeng  wrote:
>> > Hi,
>> >
>> > I am wondering how to connect to a remote Riak cluster with riak
>> console, or
>> > if it's possible. I was hoping there's --host option but that didn't
>> work.
>> >
>> > Thanks,
>> > Tom
>> > --
>> > Tom Zeng
>> > Director of Engineering
>> > Intridea, Inc. | www.intridea.com
>> > t...@intridea.com
>> >
>> > \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> > riak-users mailing list
>> > riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> > http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>> >
>>
>>
>> --
>> Sean Cribbs 
>> Software Engineer
>> Basho Technologies, Inc.
>> http://basho.com/
>>
>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

