---
title: "Re: Precommit hook function - no error log - how to debug?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2016-05-16T10:44:00-0700
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg17376"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg17373"
author_name: "Sanket Agrawal"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2016-05-16T10:44:00-0700
---


Luke, just tested and confirmed that precommit hooks are still not
triggered for normal buckets. Objects get written but precommit hooks don't
trigger. Manually simulating a trigger by executing the function on riak
console works fine.

Since sasl log is not being written despite being turned on, isn't that a
sign that something is wrong with precommit/postcommit setup? This is what
Douglar Rohrer said earlier in the thread:

> Huh - I get a huge amount of logging when I turn on sasl using
> advanced.config - specifically, I have:
> {sasl,[{sasl\_error\_logger,{file, "/tmp/sasl-1.log"}}]}
> in my advanced.config, and for just a startup/shutdown cycle I get
> a 191555 byte file.


On Mon, May 16, 2016 at 11:29 AM, Luke Bakken  wrote:

> Sanket,
>
> I can't speak to the output of cluster-info with regard to the precomit
> hook.
>
> If you save an object to the "test\_kv" bucket, does
> rtriggers:pre\_all() get called?
>
> I have confirmed that precommit hooks are \*NOT\* triggered for buckets
> where "write\_once" is true, and filed the following docs issue:
> https://github.com/basho/basho\_docs/issues/2076
>
> --
> Luke Bakken
> Engineer
> lbak...@basho.com
>
>
> On Mon, May 16, 2016 at 8:20 AM, Sanket Agrawal
>  wrote:
> > Shouldn't precommit body show up in cluster-info first before we try to
> test
> > it with an object? I just set the precommit hook for test\_kv bucket type
> > which has no custom property set. Curl on props shows precommit, but
> > cluster-info doesn't (took another dump after 5 minutes of precommit hook
> > creation). No sasl logging is triggered either though the debug mode is
> on.
> >
> > Curl output for test\_kv props:
> >
> >
> >>
> >> $ curl localhost:8098/types/test\_kv/props
> >>
> >>
> {"props":{"active":true,"allow\_mult":true,"basic\_quorum":false,"big\_vclock":50,"chash\_keyfun":{"mod":"riak\_core\_util","fun":"chash\_std\_keyfun"},"claimant":"
> riak1@127.0.0.1
> ","dvv\_enabled":true,"dw":"quorum","last\_write\_wins":false,"linkfun":{"mod":"riak\_kv\_wm\_link\_walker","fun":"mapreduce\_linkfun"},"n\_val":3,"notfound\_ok":true,"old\_vclock":86400,"postcommit":[],"pr":0,"precommit":[{"mod":"rtriggers","fun":"pre\_all"}],"pw":0,"r":"quorum","rw":"quorum","small\_vclock":50,"w":"quorum","young\_vclock":20}}
> >>
> >>
> >
> >
> > Cluster-info dump after setting the props - precommit body is still
> empty in
> > the cluster-info for test\_kv bucket type:
> >
> >>
> >> grep -A15 test\_kv cluster\_info.txt |grep precommit
> >> {precommit,[]},
> >> {precommit,[]},
> >> {precommit,[]},
> >> {precommit,[]},
> >> {precommit,[]},
> >> {precommit,[]},
> >> {precommit,[]},
> >> {precommit,[]},
> >> {precommit,[]},
> >> {precommit,[]},
> >> {precommit,[]},
> >> {precommit,[]},
> >
> >
> > On Mon, May 16, 2016 at 10:48 AM, Luke Bakken  wrote:
> >>
> >> Hi Sanket,
> >>
> >> Thanks for providing that information, this is the first time that the
> >> "write\_once" bucket type property was mentioned.
> >>
> >> If you set the precommit hook on a different bucket type where there
> >> are \*no other\* custom bucket type properties set, does the precommit
> >> hook run successfully?
> >>
> >> --
> >> Luke Bakken
> >> Engineer
> >> lbak...@basho.com
> >>
> >> On Mon, May 16, 2016 at 7:17 AM, Sanket Agrawal
> >>  wrote:
> >> > Hi Luke,
> >> >
> >> > More on the precommit hook debugging I just did - I might have a
> handle
> >> > on
> >> > what the problem is. I took a cluster-info dump for all the nodes in
> the
> >> > cluster. In the dump, precommit is set to [] for all the buckets in
> the
> >> > cluster. The reason for that seems to be that the bucket type with
> >> > "write-once" property where precommit hook is set, is not in the
> cluster
> >> > somehow!
> >> >
> >> > The bucket type name is "test\_kv\_wo". Let us grep for it in
> >> > cluster\_info.txt
> >> > - it doesn't show up at all (another bucket type "test\_kv" shows up
> >> > instead):
> >> >>
> >> >> $ grep test\_kv cluster\_info.txt | sort -u
> >> >> [[{bucket,<<"test\_kv">>}|
> >> >> {name,<<"test\_kv">>},
> >> >
> >> >
> >> > Now, let us verify we can get the props for the bucket type fine from
> >> > curl:
> >> >>
> >> >> $ curl localhost:8098/types/test\_kv\_wo/buckets/uuid\_log/props:
> >> >>
> >> >>
> >> >>
> {"props":{"name":"uuid\_log","active":true,"allow\_mult":true,"basic\_quorum":false,"big\_vclock":50,"chash\_keyfun":{"mod":"riak\_core\_util","fun":"chash\_std\_keyfun"},"claimant":"
> riak1@127.0.0.1
> ","dvv\_enabled":true,"dw":"quorum","last\_write\_wins":false,"linkfun":{"mod":"riak\_kv\_wm\_link\_walker","fun":"mapreduce\_linkfun"},"n\_val":3,"name":"uuid\_log","notfound\_ok":true,"old\_vclock":86400,"postcommit":[],"pr":0,"precommit":[{"mod":"rtriggers","fun":"pre\_uuid"}],"pw":0,"r":"quorum","rw":"quorum","small\_vclock":50,"w":"quorum","write\_once":true,"young\_vclock":20}}
> >> >
> >> >
> >> >
> >> > So, the problem might be missing bucket types in the cluster since
> they
> >> > don't show up in cluster-info at all? The same thing happens with LWW
> >> > bucket
> >> > type that I created, test\_kv\_lww. It doesn't show up either. CRDT
> bucket
> >> > types show up fine.
> >
> >
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

