---
title: "Re: Riak CS : "405 (Method Not Allowed)" when creating a bucket"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-03-21T09:14:38-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10540"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg10539"
author_name: "Jared Morrow"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-03-21T09:14:38-07:00
---


Jean-Baptiste,

Bucket creation is one of the operations handled by 'stanchion'. So, make
sure you've install stanchion installed on only one node and that all
riak-cs nodes are pointing at that one stanchion node. If that all looks
fine, the second thing to check is that the admin credentials match between
riak-cs and stanchion.

Hopefully one of those is the problem and it is an easy fix. If not, just
reply back and we can work through it.

-Jared

On Thu, Mar 21, 2013 at 9:58 AM, Jean-Baptiste Barth <
jeanbaptiste.ba...@gmail.com> wrote:

> Hi,
>
> First congratulations for open-sourcing Riak CS !
>
> Thanks to the "fast track" docs I now have a vagrant VM which runs Riak CS
> and I have been able to define admin credentials. Now I'm trying to use the
> whole thing with s3cmd as proposed in
> http://docs.basho.com/riakcs/latest/tutorials/fast-track/Testing-the-Installation/
> ;
> "s3cmd --configure" and "s3cmd ls" work fine, though it doesn't return
> anything since I have no bucket for now. I use s3cmd v1.5.0-alpha1
> installed with the tarball.
>
> When I try to create a bucket I get the following error: "ERROR: S3 error:
> 405 (Method Not Allowed):"
>
> You can see a full trace here, trying to create a "zbucket" :
> https://gist.github.com/jbbarth/5213352
>
> I'm not very familiar with riak/webmachine/s3cmd for now. I imagine Riak
> CS is not happy with the "PUT" HTTP verb, is it expected behaviour ? Maybe
> there is something obvious I missed ? Any idea is welcome.
>
> Thanks,
>
> Jean-Baptiste
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

