---
title: "Re: Java client blocked at shutdown?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-11-05T06:01:42-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12850"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12847"
author_name: "Konstantin Kalin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-11-05T06:01:42-08:00
---


Strange. If you call shutdown of Riak client it shouldn't stop Tomcat
shutdown anymore. This is that I learn from source code. I called the
method in Servlet listener and never had issues after that. Before I had
similar behavior like you have.

Thank you,
Konstantin.
On Nov 5, 2013 5:31 AM, "Guido Medina"  wrote:

> That's done already, I'm looking at the source now, not sure of the
> following timer needs to be cancelled when Riak client shutdown method is
> called:
>
>
> public abstract class RiakStreamClient implements Iterable {
>
> static Timer TIMER = new Timer("riak-stream-timeout-thread", true);
> ...
> ...
> }
>
> Guido.
>
> On 05/11/13 13:29, Konstantin Kalin wrote:
>
> You need to call shutdown method of Riak client when you are stopping your
> application.
>
> Thank you,
> Konstantin.
>
> On Nov 5, 2013, at 5:06, Guido Medina  wrote:
>
> Sorry, I meant "stopping Tomcat from shutting down properly"...I must
> have been thinking of some FPS night game.
>
> On 05/11/13 13:04, Guido Medina wrote:
>
> Hi,
>
> We are tracing some threads at our webapp which are stopping Tomcat from
> shooting down properly, one of them seems to be related with Riak Java
> client, here is the repeating stack trace once all services have been
> stopped properly:
>
> \*Thread Name:\* riak-stream-timeout-thread
> \*State:\* in Object.wait()
> \*Java Stack trace:\*
> at java.lang.Object.wait(Native Method)
> - waiting on [0x00000004bb4001a0] (a java.util.TaskQueue)
> at java.lang.Object.wait(Object.java:503)
> at java.util.TimerThread.mainLoop(Timer.java:526)
> - locked [0x00000004bb4001a0] (a java.util.TaskQueue)
> at java.util.TimerThread.run(Timer.java:505)
>
>
> Thanks for the help,
>
> Guido.
>
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

