---
title: "RE: Social network data / Graph properties of Riak"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-11-18T11:50:06-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05669"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg05659"
author_name: "Jeroen van Dijk"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-11-18T11:50:06-08:00
---


I didn't include the riak list...

---------- Forwarded message ----------
From: Jeroen van Dijk 
Date: Fri, Nov 18, 2011 at 8:36 PM
Subject: Re: Social network data / Graph properties of Riak
To: Eric Moritz 




On Fri, Nov 18, 2011 at 5:06 PM, Eric Moritz wrote:

&gt; If you're storing the graph in a graph database where you're simply
&gt; connecting keys to other keys and then you store the actual properties
&gt; in Riak identified by those keys, then yes Riak will be a fine
&gt; solution for you.
&gt;
&gt; For instance, you traverse the graph using a graph db, collecting a
&gt; list of keys you want the properties for and then load the property
&gt; documents for the keys you collected.
&gt;

Is that what you're envisioning?
&gt;
&gt;
Thank you for this suggestion. I might end up with this kind of solution,
but I think it is not completely what I'm envisioning. I would like to have
the power to scale horizontally as Riak can. If I would be depending on a
graph database to store the relationships I think that this will at some
point turn out to be the bottleneck, unless there are property graph
databases I'm unaware of that have a similar way of scaling as Riak does.

So I basically want to be able to store the complete graph/dataset in Riak
without losing any information on edges or vertices. The database should be
able to scale on read and writes horizontally by just adding machines as
Riak is supposed to do. Advanced queries will be done in the graph
database. The graph database should be fed with the data that is stored in
Riak and this process should not be too slow. I'm thinking of to have my
application write to both Riak and a graph database. And I'll want to sync
on set times from Riak to the graph database to make sure no data is lost
in the graph database. I guess this syncing part is also non-trivial for
big datasets.

Does the above make sense to you?

Jeroen


&gt; Eric.
&gt;
&gt; On Fri, Nov 18, 2011 at 10:38 AM, Jeroen van Dijk
&gt;  wrote:
&gt; &gt; Hi all,
&gt; &gt; I'm currently evaluating whether Riak would fit as the main storage of my
&gt; &gt; current project, a social network. The reason I am attracted to Riak and
&gt; &gt; less to a Graph database as main storage is that I want the easy
&gt; horizontal
&gt; &gt; scalability and multi-site replication that Riak provides. The only
&gt; thing I
&gt; &gt; doubt is whether the key-value/link model of Riak is flexible enough to
&gt; be
&gt; &gt; able to store a property graph (http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.2361). I am
&gt; not
&gt; &gt; asking whether the querying/graph traversing will be easy; I'm probably
&gt; &gt; going to use a graph database or a Pregel like platform (e.g.
&gt; &gt; http://www.goldenorbos.org/) for that problem. I guess my main question
&gt; is
&gt; &gt; whether it would be easy/feasible to import and export a property graph
&gt; in
&gt; &gt; and from Riak? Has someone done this before?
&gt; &gt; I realize the above might be too specific, so here are two more questions
&gt; &gt; that I think are relevant:
&gt; &gt; - Is there a known upper limit of links that can be stored (I don't want
&gt; to
&gt; &gt; add them all at once so 1000 per request is fine,
&gt; &gt;
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/pipermail/riak-users\_lists.basho.com/2010-March/000786.html
&gt; )
&gt; &gt; - Is there a way to add meta data to links (edges)? E.g. weigths and
&gt; other
&gt; &gt; attributes.
&gt; &gt; Any other ideas or advise are also highly appreciated.
&gt; &gt; Cheers,
&gt; &gt; Jeroen
&gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

