---
title: "Re: Riak Adoption - What can we do better?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-04-20T00:27:29-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07256"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg07255"
author_name: "Matthew Tovbin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-04-20T00:27:29-07:00
---


Riak is one of the simplest KV stores I used so far. Almost zero learning
curve
and ease of setup makes it a great tool to start working with. Moreover,
later you
got rewarded by an outstanding stability and minimal maintenance even at
large
scale.

So, the only obstacle I see in adoption of Riak lays in understanding the
general
datastore design principles using KV store, which probably is better to be
explained by thoughtful examples.

IMHO, it'll be nice for newbies to have an online live demo system(s)
populated
with some actual data and based on Riak  and
Webmachine,
allowing playing
with
it both manually and programmatically.
Such demo will serve as display of applied Riak data design patterns.


-Matthew



On Thu, Apr 19, 2012 at 20:40, Jeremy Raymond  wrote:

&gt; +1 for better online docs (wiki). I also don't read them anymore and
&gt; also go to the source to figure out what to do or ask on the list.
&gt; Also using the Erlang client.
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Jeremy
&gt;
&gt; On Apr 19, 2012, at 11:31 PM, Daniil Churikov  wrote:
&gt;
&gt; &gt; I wonder why you all ask a book, when there is no any docs on most wanted
&gt; &gt; features at all, or they are outdated. E.g. to find how to use 2i
&gt; queries in
&gt; &gt; erlang i dive into sources, not docs. I really like riak, but look for
&gt; &gt; example on mongodb docs, it is solid and useful, you could easily find
&gt; any
&gt; &gt; topic you intresting in. Make it better for use and you will get what you
&gt; &gt; want.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; --
&gt; &gt; View this message in context:
&gt; http://riak-users.197444.n3.nabble.com/Riak-Adoption-What-can-we-do-better-tp3923737p3924975.html
&gt; &gt; Sent from the Riak Users mailing list archive at Nabble.com.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

