---
title: "Re: Luwak EOL"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-01-12T12:53:54-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06265"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06263"
author_name: "David Smith"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-01-12T12:53:54-08:00
---


On Thu, Jan 12, 2012 at 12:40 PM, Mikhail Sobolev  wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Can you explain more detailed reason for EOL Luwak?  And is there some
&gt;&gt; replacement or alternative solution for the part Luwak taking in Riak?
&gt; Seconding Zheng's request: would it be possible to hear the reasons for
&gt; Luwak EOL?

Hi Misha, Zheng,

&gt;From a technical standpoint, Luwak has some problems with the way in
which files are chunked and manifest of those chunks is maintained.
Specifically, there is no good way of knowing when a given chunk is no
longer in use, which creates a very thorny distributed garbage
collection issue -- this is a fundamental design problem. In addition,
the manifest of chunks does not properly handle situations where
siblings of the manifest occur -- this is a significant implementation
problem. These two issues, in particular, have led us to stop further
development of Luwak and investigate other architectural approaches.

Above and beyond these technical issues, Luwak also doesn't solve a
host of other problems that most people who want to store files in
Riak encounter. We are in the process of building a complete solution
for multi-tenancy file storage in Riak -- more info on that will be
available next month.

Hope that helps,

D.

-- 
Dave Smith
Director, Engineering
Basho Technologies, Inc.
diz...@basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

