---
title: "Re: A bunch of Erlang client questions"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-11-27T12:08:34-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg09393"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg09387"
author_name: "Bryan Fink"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-11-27T12:08:34-08:00
---


On Tue, Nov 27, 2012 at 11:41 AM, Alex Rønne Petersen
 wrote:
&gt;&gt; In short, the proper way to replace an object is to first fetch the
&gt;&gt; existing object, then update the value of what you fetched, then use
&gt;&gt; riakc\_pb\_socket:put to write the new value. The reason for doing this
&gt;&gt; is to comply with Riak's consistency system (the vector clocks) - it
&gt;&gt; needs to know what value you were starting from in order to overwrite
&gt;&gt; it correctly.
&gt;
&gt; OK, makes sense. Just out of curiosity, though, is updating values via
&gt; put without an update a supported scenario in some way or is it
&gt; generally considered a Bad Idea (tm)?

This depends on each bucket's configuration of allow\_mult. In the
default setup, with allow\_mult=false, writing without fetching first
causes Riak to simply store the new value instead of the old value,
with conflict resolution (during read-repair/etc.) done simply by
comparing modification timestamps. With allow\_mult=true, writing
without fetching first causes Riak to store sibling objects.

&gt; Does Riak figure out based on the name of the index what type it is?
&gt; That is, \*\_int = integer, \*\_bin = string?
&gt;
&gt; Is there any physical limit to how many secondary indexes can be
&gt; created for an object? Or perhaps a recommended limit?

Answers to both of these are on the poorly-named "Configuring
Secondary Indexes" page:

http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/cookbooks/Secondary-Indexes---Configuration/

&gt; When if\_none\_match is enabled, will riakc\_pb\_socket:put/3 return ok
&gt; regardless of whether the value was stored?

No, it looks like it returns an error in that case:

 6&gt; O = riakc\_obj:new(&lt;&lt;"one"&gt;&gt;, &lt;&lt;"two"&gt;&gt;, &lt;&lt;"three"&gt;&gt;).
 {riakc\_obj,&lt;&lt;"one"&gt;&gt;,&lt;&lt;"two"&gt;&gt;,undefined,[],undefined,
 &lt;&lt;"three"&gt;&gt;}
 7&gt; riakc\_pb\_socket:put(S, O, [if\_none\_match]).
 ok
 8&gt; riakc\_pb\_socket:put(S, O, [if\_none\_match]).
 {error,&lt;&lt;"match\_found"&gt;&gt;}

-Bryan

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

