---
title: "Re: Best way to back-up riak"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-07-27T09:37:11-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00791"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg00790"
author_name: "Jason J. W. Williams"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-07-27T09:37:11-07:00
---


Honestly the holding back of replication from Riak OS is the only real downside 
to the product. Reminds me of the old adage there's those that will never pay 
for OS software...and those that can't afford not to (because of things like 
Sox). 

-J

Sent via iPhone

Is your e-mail Premiere?

On Jul 27, 2010, at 8:03, Justin Sheehy  wrote:

&gt; On Wed, Jul 21, 2010 at 2:01 PM, Alan McConnell  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; I'm curious about this as well. Say I have a ten node cluster. Could I
&gt;&gt; just schedule a midnight copy of each bitcask data directory every night,
&gt;&gt; then restore to another ten node cluster by dropping one of each data
&gt;&gt; directories on each new node? How close does the timing needs to be? What
&gt;&gt; if the data directory snapshots were taken seconds or minutes apart?
&gt; 
&gt; While Basho does provide a product including features that make
&gt; whole-datacenter failure much less of a problem (by fully replicating
&gt; to a cluster in another location) I will answer assuming you have only
&gt; a single cluster.
&gt; 
&gt; The timing doesn't have to be perfectly synchronized, but you should
&gt; try to make it as close as is practical just so that you have a good
&gt; way to judge what is contained in a given backup. If a storage (put)
&gt; operation occurs in an interval between single-node backups, it will
&gt; be present in the restored cluster when requested (and repopulated via
&gt; read-repair) as long as it was in at least one of the nodes.
&gt; 
&gt; -Justin

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

