---
title: "Re: Map/Reduce In pure erlang"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-07-29T09:18:25-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04146"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04145"
author_name: "Jeremiah Peschka"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-07-29T09:18:25-07:00
---


WOOHOO! My wrong answer brought out the right one. Thanks for the creative 
solution, Brian!
---
Jeremiah Peschka
Founder, Brent Ozar PLF, LLC

On Jul 29, 2011, at 9:09 AM, Brian Rowe wrote:

&gt; This isn't completely accurate. There's nothing to stop you from
&gt; writing a module that reads in a key, compiles the payload as code,
&gt; and calls a function within the newly compiled module. Similarly, you
&gt; can set up the nodes to point to an external library path and run the
&gt; modules from there.
&gt; 
&gt; As far as running map/reduce jobs from erlang, yes, there is an erlang
&gt; API for that using the riak erlang client. You can see from the source
&gt; that all of these operations are available:
&gt; 
&gt; -export([start\_link/2, start\_link/3,
&gt; start/2, start/3,
&gt; stop/1,
&gt; ... snip ...
&gt; mapred/3, mapred/4, mapred/5,
&gt; mapred\_stream/4, mapred\_stream/5, mapred\_stream/6,
&gt; mapred\_bucket/3, mapred\_bucket/4, mapred\_bucket/5,
&gt; mapred\_bucket\_stream/5, mapred\_bucket\_stream/6,
&gt; 
&gt; https://github.com/basho/riak-erlang-client/blob/master/src/riakc\_pb\_socket.erl
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Fri, Jul 29, 2011 at 11:12 AM, Jeremiah Peschka
&gt;  wrote:
&gt;&gt; As I remember it, if you want to do Map/Reduce with erlang, you can only use 
&gt;&gt; functions that have been compiled and uploaded to the Riak cluster. That is: 
&gt;&gt; there's no way to write your erlang M/R jobs on the fly like you can do with 
&gt;&gt; JavaScript
&gt;&gt; ---
&gt;&gt; Jeremiah Peschka
&gt;&gt; Founder, Brent Ozar PLF, LLC
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On Jul 29, 2011, at 8:10 AM, Lyes Amazouz wrote:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Hi!
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; I want to know if there is a way to do a map/Reduce query using pure erlang 
&gt;&gt;&gt; library without (even for the map/reduce query functions) without using the 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Javascript or passing by the http interface . Does riak offers something 
&gt;&gt;&gt; like that?
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Thank you!
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt;&gt; ================
&gt;&gt;&gt; Lyes
&gt;&gt;&gt; ================
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; 


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

