---
title: "Re: Riak / Search via Python Client, no Results from Server"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-05-22T13:52:49-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07509"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg07508"
author_name: "Sean Cribbs"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-05-22T13:52:49-07:00
---


Claude,

Generally your terms in wildcard queries need to be at least two or three
characters (I don't remember which), so either way A\* is not going to work
as a search.

On Tue, May 22, 2012 at 4:46 PM,  wrote:

&gt; Dear colleagues.
&gt;
&gt; Not able to run a pattern search through the Python query. The server
&gt; search option was enabled with the\* true\* setting in the app.config file
&gt; (line 165) and the server was restarted. Checking the Riak console log
&gt; below, I see the search being started, but no results are returned to the
&gt; client. My version is "git" built from source.
&gt;
&gt; \*Console Log\*
&gt; 2012-05-22 15:07:50.853 [info] &lt;0.7.0&gt; Application riak\_search started on
&gt; node 'riak@172.24.200.158'
&gt; 2012-05-22 15:07:50.854 [info] &lt;0.7.0&gt; Application basho\_stats started on
&gt; node 'riak@172.24.200.158'
&gt; 2012-05-22 15:07:50.865 [info] &lt;0.7.0&gt; Application runtime\_tools started
&gt; on node 'riak@172.24.200.158'
&gt; 2012-05-22 15:07:50.866 [info] &lt;0.7.0&gt; Application public\_key started on
&gt; node 'riak@172.24.200.158'
&gt; 2012-05-22 15:07:50.882 [info] &lt;0.7.0&gt; Application ssl started on node '
&gt; riak@172.24.200.158'
&gt; 2012-05-22 15:07:50.944 [info]
&gt; &lt;0.1558.0&gt;@riak\_core:wait\_for\_application:390 Wait complete for application
&gt; riak\_search (0 seconds)
&gt; 2012-05-22 15:07:51.034 [info] &lt;0.1490.0&gt;@riak\_core:wait\_for\_service:410
&gt; Wait complete for service riak\_search (0 seconds)
&gt;
&gt; \*Source code: Read all data starting with Capital Letter A, cEDO is the
&gt; data field name \*
&gt; try:
&gt; client = riak.RiakClient(host='xxxxxxxx')
&gt; data\_bucket = client.bucket(bucketname)
&gt; mykeys = data\_bucket.get\_keys()
&gt; howmany = len(mykeys)
&gt; print "How many keys in the bucket: "+ str(howmany)
&gt; search\_query = client.search(bucketname, 'cEDO:A\*')
&gt; print "search query built"
&gt; resultset = search\_query.run()
&gt; print "result entries found: " + str(len(resultset))
&gt;
&gt; \*Processing log: \*
&gt; How many keys in the bucket: 500
&gt; search query built
&gt; result entries found: 0
&gt;
&gt; No further error message is thrown.
&gt;
&gt; ps .. Also the basic sample from the Python client documentation (bucket=
&gt; 'user') shows the same results, 0 entries found by the serach.
&gt;
&gt; http://basho.github.com/riak-python-client/tutorial.html#using-search
&gt;
&gt; Thanks in advance for your insights.\* What's missing to start the Search
&gt; feature, or is something missing in the Lucene syntax ? \*
&gt;
&gt; Regards,
&gt; Claude
&gt;
&gt; \*
&gt; Claude Falbriard
&gt; Certified IT Specialist L2 - Middleware
&gt; AMS Hortolândia / SP - Brazil
&gt; phone: +55 19 9837 0789
&gt; cell: +55 13 8117 3316
&gt; e-mail: clau...@br.ibm.com
&gt; \*
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;


-- 
Sean Cribbs 
Software Engineer
Basho Technologies, Inc.
http://basho.com/
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

