---
title: "Re: Scale up or out?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-06-27T07:14:57-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07820"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg07786"
author_name: "Eric Anderson"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-06-27T07:14:57-07:00
---


On Jun 26, 2012, at 9:37 AM, Jeremiah Peschka  
wrote:

&gt; Scale out - zerg rush your data.
&gt; 
&gt; Many smaller systems means that, in theory, you're going to be affected less 
&gt; by poor performance of any single instance. 
&gt; 
&gt; When you're building out instances in EC2 always remember that the largest 
&gt; instance in a class of instances is most likely to be the only VM on that 
&gt; server. So, an m2.4xlarge will probably be the only instance on that VM host. 
&gt; The biggest downside to shared VMs is that you're also sharing a 1gigabit 
&gt; ethernet connection. 
&gt; 
&gt; If you're okay with the possibility of sharing your connectivity with other 
&gt; people, then don't worry about instance sizes and just keep scaling out.
&gt; 
&gt; If you do worry about what other jerks are doing, then try to size your 
&gt; instances so that you're the only person on that piece of hardware. 
&gt; Basically, the instances you're looking for are m1.xlarge, m2.4xlarge, 
&gt; c1.xlarge, cc1.4xlarge, cc2.8xlarge. The upside is that you can also hog all 
&gt; of the instance storage and take advantage of local storage AND get the 
&gt; redundancy that Riak brings to the table - EBS volumes are RAIDed behind the 
&gt; scenes.

Thanks!

That helps a lot!

Eric Anderson
Co-Founder
http://CopperEgg.com



&gt; 
&gt; On Tue, Jun 26, 2012 at 7:24 AM, Eric Anderson  wrote:
&gt; Hey all,
&gt; 
&gt; Question about EC2 (or scale in general): i'm building a decent cluster, to 
&gt; handle 15-20k inserts/s and 5-10k gets per second. (for a rough idea of what 
&gt; I'm doing). I've been playing with a 15-node cluster of m2.xlarge systems, 
&gt; but I am wondering what is better: more small systems or less larger systems? 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; Any recommendations/hints/tricks would be a huge help!
&gt; 
&gt; Eric
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; 

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

