---
title: "Re: Riak Recap as a Blog (?)"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-06-09T17:15:51-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03634"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg03632"
author_name: "Sylvain Niles"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-06-09T17:15:51-07:00
---


This calls for silly hats.
It's a re-cap, heh.

http://rookery9.aviary.com.s3.amazonaws.com/8461000/8461482\_11a7\_625x625.jpg

If anyone likes silly hats I could certainly clean this up a lot.




On Thu, Jun 9, 2011 at 4:27 PM, Mark Phillips  wrote:

&gt; Firstly, thanks for the feedback. This is exactly what we were looking for!
&gt;
&gt; It's pretty clear that people would find value in consuming the Recaps via
&gt; both email and blog/rss. So, that's what we are going to do :) Once the
&gt; initial setup is taken care of, posting a blog entry with the same content
&gt; as the plain text Recap that's sent to this list will take all of 15
&gt; minutes. That's a small price to pay IMO, and I'll happily do it to reach a
&gt; wider audience. :)
&gt;
&gt; For those of you who were asking for a prettier search interface for the
&gt; list, http://riak.markmail.org/ is an invaluable resource. I'll work on
&gt; making that link more visible. We might be able to make this list more
&gt; searchable, too. I'm looking into it.
&gt;
&gt; Alright. Off to build a Recap blog. Not sure when that'll be done but it
&gt; shouldn't take more than a week or two to finalize.
&gt;
&gt; One other thought I just had: it might be cool for the Recap blog to have a
&gt; nifty logo. Any amateur graphic designers out there want to take a stab
&gt; creating a "Riak Recap" logo? It pays a Riak t-shirt, stickers, and praise
&gt; and adoration of Riak users everywhere ...
&gt;
&gt; Thanks again!
&gt;
&gt; Mark
&gt;
&gt; On Mon, Jun 6, 2011 at 7:54 PM, Jonathan Langevin &lt;
&gt; jlange...@loomlearning.com&gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; +1 on blog.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Additionally, I agree with Keith about ability to search. While a mailing
&gt;&gt; list is great for being able to converse via email, it seems that quite alot
&gt;&gt; of valuable conversations and tips get "lost" due to how ML discussions are
&gt;&gt; archived (i.e. - the interface).
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; For instance, it would be nice to browse in a forum-style interface
&gt;&gt; (instead of having to dig through date-archived postings), and esp if the
&gt;&gt; ability to respond via web existed, that would be awesome.
&gt;&gt; Google Groups would be a good solution, as it seems to be pretty much a
&gt;&gt; forum interface to a mailing list. Only issue is I've seen spam quite often
&gt;&gt; in Google Groups, but I don't know if that's just due to lists not having
&gt;&gt; proper administrators (or some type of spam filter is not enabled).
&gt;&gt; \*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Jonathan Langevin
&gt;&gt; Systems Administrator
&gt;&gt; Loom Inc.
&gt;&gt; Wilmington, NC: (910) 241-0433 - jlange...@loomlearning.com -
&gt;&gt; www.loomlearning.com - Skype: intel352
&gt;&gt; \*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Mon, Jun 6, 2011 at 10:32 AM, Keith Bennett &lt;
&gt;&gt; keith.benn...@lmnsolutions.com&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Mark -
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; I think that's a great idea. I'd go even further, and suggest that the
&gt;&gt;&gt; valuable information discussed on the mailing list be managed in a
&gt;&gt;&gt; searchable form, as is the case with Google or Yahoo Groups. (Is it
&gt;&gt;&gt; searchable now? I couldn't see how to search the entire archive for a
&gt;&gt;&gt; keyword.)
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; This would be helpful for we users of riak, and even possibly for riak
&gt;&gt;&gt; developers, since finding more information might prevent people from asking
&gt;&gt;&gt; a question that has already been asked in the past, saving them time. In
&gt;&gt;&gt; this case, you might want to copy the Recap to a message on the mailing
&gt;&gt;&gt; list, so it's searchable there as well.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt;&gt; Keith
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; On Jun 6, 2011, at 2:51 AM, Mark Phillips wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; Hey All -
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; Quick question: how would you feel if we turned the Riak Recap into a
&gt;&gt;&gt; blog?
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; I've spoken with various people in various channels about how to best
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; deliver the Recap, and while it's clear that it's a valuable tool for
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; the community, I'm not sure the Mailing List is still the best vehicle
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; through which to publish it.
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; Publishing it as a blog (perhaps at "recap.basho.com") makes a lot of
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; sense as it would enable people to consume it without having to sift
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; through the rest of the mailing list traffic (and I know there are
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; more than a few of you who are on this ML only for the Recaps). More
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; importantly, I think it would bring more new readers to the Recap (and
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; more users to Riak).
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; So, in the interest of convenience and expanding the size of the Riak
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; community, I think making it a blog might make sense. It would still
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; be written, published, and tweeted thrice weekly, just delivered to
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; you in your Reader, for example, instead of on the ML.
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; As you all are the primary consumers of the Recap, I thought I would
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; gather some opinions before I did anything drastic. Anyone have
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; thoughts on this?
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; +/-1s, rants, and all other expressions of opinion are encouraged.
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; Mark
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; Community Manager
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; Basho Technologies
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; wiki.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; twitter.com/pharkmillups
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

