---
title: "Re: Re: Riak performance problems when LevelDB database grows beyond	16GB"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-10-12T07:31:11-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08894"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg08893"
author_name: "Evan Vigil-McClanahan"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-10-12T07:31:11-07:00
---


Hi there, Jan,

The lsof issue is that max\_open\_files is per backend, iirc, so if
you're maxed out you'll see vnode count \* max\_open\_files.

I think on the second try, you may have set the cache too high. I'd
drop it back to 8 or 16 MB, and possibly up the open files a bit more,
but you don't seem to be running into contention at this point.
There's a RAM cost, so maybe just leave it where it is for now, unless
you have quite a lot of memory.

Another thing to check is that vm.swappiness is set to 0 and that your
disk scheduler is set to deadline for spinning disks and noop for
SSDs.

On Fri, Oct 12, 2012 at 5:02 AM,  wrote:
&gt;&gt; Can you attach the eleveldb portion of your app.config file?
&gt;&gt; Configuration problems, especially max\_open\_files being too low, can
&gt;&gt; often cause issues like this.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; If it isn't sensitive, the whole app.config and vm.args files are also
&gt;&gt; often helpful.
&gt;
&gt; Hello Evan,
&gt;
&gt; thanks for responding.
&gt;
&gt; I originally had default LevelDB settings. When the node stalled, I changed it
&gt; to
&gt;
&gt; {eleveldb, [
&gt; {data\_root, "/home/riak/leveldb"},
&gt; {max\_open\_files, 132},
&gt; {cache\_size, 377487360}
&gt; ]},
&gt;
&gt; on all nodes and I restarted them all. The application started to run with
&gt; about 1000 requests/second, after about 1 minute it dropped to &lt;500
&gt; requests/second, and the node stalled again after 41 minutes. BTW according to
&gt; lsof(1) it had 267 open LevelDB files which is more than the 132 files limit
&gt; (??).

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

