---
title: "Re: possible bug?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-01-17T17:55:10-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg02017"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg02016"
author_name: "Dan Reverri"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-01-17T17:55:10-08:00
---


Hi Gary,

Can you send us the bucket props for "bucket"?
Can you send us the link header for "bucket/key"?

Thanks,
Dan

Daniel Reverri
Developer Advocate
Basho Technologies, Inc.
d...@basho.com


On Mon, Jan 17, 2011 at 5:48 PM, Gary William Flake  wrote:

&gt; I am sorry if this is not the appropriate place to send little observations
&gt; like this. I am just diving into Riak for the first time, and I think it is
&gt; a remarkable system, if not a bit frustrating as well.
&gt;
&gt; Anyhow, here is the issue...
&gt;
&gt; I can create an item in a bucket which has links according to it's header
&gt; via 'curl -v'. The links are well formed, plain ascii keys, in the same
&gt; bucket, and with default tags -- i.e., there is nothing strange at all about
&gt; how they are declared.
&gt;
&gt; But if I run:
&gt;
&gt; curl http://localhost:8098/riak/bucket/key/\_,\_,1
&gt;
&gt; I get:
&gt;
&gt; 404 Not FoundNot Found
=========

The
&gt; requested document was not found on this
&gt; server.

---

mochiweb+webmachine web
&gt; server


&gt;
&gt; Keep in mind that curl http://localhost:8098/riak/bucket/key gives the
&gt; proper response.
&gt;
&gt; Another weird thing... I gave up on trying to fix the issue with the
&gt; bucket, and on a whim the only change to my code was to change the name of
&gt; the bucket to, say, bucket2. Now it works.
&gt;
&gt; This made me think that installing search hooks and/or changing the
&gt; indexing schema put the bucket in an odd state. On repeating those steps on
&gt; bucket2, everything worked still.
&gt;
&gt; I am keeping the bad bucket around if it is of use in debugging something.
&gt; Unfortunately, it is hard for me to describe how to reproduce the exact
&gt; issue because I am basically attempting to build a rich search index for the
&gt; entirety of wikipedia as a sort of "hello world"
&gt;
&gt; If any basho folks want me to run any diagnostics, just let me know.
&gt;
&gt; -- GWF
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

