---
title: "Re: C Client?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-04-13T14:16:32-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07201"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg07200"
author_name: "Andres Jaan Tack"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-04-13T14:16:32-07:00
---


If you'd like, I will write a C wrapper around
riak-cpp,
obviously itself written for C++. Actually, in the interest of getting my
code into more hands, I will help you in any number of ways (e.g. provide
an implementation of Riak/PB) if you can specify your compiler and/or
runtime constraints in more detail.

Let me know.

--
Andres

2012/4/13 Brian Knox 

&gt; I'm extremely interested in evaluating Riak for the back end of a project
&gt; I'm currently working on. However, there's one major hurdle - there
&gt; doesn't appear to be a supported C client driver, which I absolutely need
&gt; do to some integration work I need to do. I found one C driver project on
&gt; github, but it doesn't appear to be production ready and looks more like an
&gt; experiment (no offense to the author!). To be clear - when I say "C
&gt; client" I'd like to use the protobuf interface, and not the HTTP rest api
&gt; (for performance reasons).
&gt;
&gt; So first, I'd like to just +1 any previous requests for a C driver.
&gt;
&gt; Secondly - for my particular needs, I really only need insert ability (I
&gt; don't need to query from C) - since this is a much smaller subset of the
&gt; problem of a full fledged client library, if there's any available
&gt; information that would be helpful for someone writing a C library for
&gt; inserting into Riak via it's protobuf interface, I'm grateful for any links
&gt; and pointers.
&gt;
&gt; Thank you!
&gt; Brian
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

