---
title: "Re: Riak Recap for November 23 - 27"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-11-28T19:10:33-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05770"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg05769"
author_name: "Jeff Kirkell"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-11-28T19:10:33-08:00
---


6) Q --- Are people running riak natively on osx (for development) or
running on a vm that matches production? (from kenperkins via #riak)

 A --- Anyone? (We had a similar thread on the list several months
back about this but I figured it couldn't hurt to open it up to more
discussion.)

For me, I always develop directly on the Mac first using the standard 4
node environment. When the initial work is done, it is moved up to a shared
environment which uses multiple physical Linux machines like production.
Setting the ulimit solved the problems I had although I think the wiki's
command were not correct and I had to find the exact settings elsewhere.

Jeff

On Mon, Nov 28, 2011 at 8:49 PM, Aphyr  wrote:

&gt; 6) Q --- Are people running riak natively on osx (for development) or
&gt;&gt; running on a vm that matches production? (from kenperkins via #riak)
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; A --- Anyone? (We had a similar thread on the list several months
&gt;&gt; back about this but I figured it couldn't hurt to open it up to more
&gt;&gt; discussion.)
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt; We've got a few devs who use riak on OSX for development here, but not
&gt; heavily. ulimit appears to be a capricious liar on that platform, at least
&gt; from the issues we've encountered. :/
&gt;
&gt; I do most of our riak-facing development, and use Ubuntu and Debian as my
&gt; everyday dev OS. No VMs. We deploy to Ubuntu server.
&gt;
&gt; --Kyle
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\*\*\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/\*\*mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_\*\*lists.basho.com
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

