---
title: "Re: riak as log storage"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-04-14T07:04:52-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03026"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg03025"
author_name: "Jon Brisbin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-04-14T07:04:52-07:00
---


I actually did this exact thing in the MongoDB Log4J appender I wrote. I 
haven't had time to port it Riak yet, but that's my plan when I get a few spare 
minutes. I even wrote a dojo-based front-end for it that I'm beefing up to 
include sorting entries, searching, etc... Kind of a graylog2 baby clone... :)

https://github.com/SpringSource/spring-data-document/tree/master/spring-data-mongodb-log4j

jb


On Apr 14, 2011, at 3:48 AM, Alessandro Testa wrote:

&gt; hi guys,
&gt; i'm try to design a log storage based on riak.
&gt; the requiment are:
&gt; 1 the system needs to be able to store any number of these log event
&gt; 2 the system needs to be able to apply a label to some of these event
&gt; 3 the user can access the most recent log, and then can go back in time 
&gt; (cannot 
&gt; decide to start in the middle of the list or look for a specific event)
&gt; 4 the user can filter the log based on the label and access the filtered list 
&gt; in 
&gt; with the same parameter as point 3
&gt; 
&gt; my idea is to store each event as a json document, the key of the document 
&gt; will 
&gt; be a uuid (type1). each document will be linked to the previous one, so i can 
&gt; follow the link to view the previus log.
&gt; 
&gt; i want to add also other links that point to the previous event marked with 
&gt; the 
&gt; same label.
&gt; 
&gt; i hope i explain enough the problem and the design.
&gt; 
&gt; now my questions:
&gt; - do you think this is a good architecture?
&gt; - i read about luwak, do you think it can be used in a scenario like this?
&gt; 
&gt; thank, i really hope to get some feedback from you!
&gt; Alex
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com


Thanks!

Jon Brisbin

http://jbrisbin.com
Twitter: @j\_brisbin



\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

