---
title: "Re: pseudo-atomic operations"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-11-18T06:26:24-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg09339"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg09338"
author_name: "Jeremiah Peschka"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-11-18T06:26:24-08:00
---


Chiming in on this as well -

Using lock(username) will work as long as you have a centralized
application server where all creates occur. As soon as you have two systems
involved you can run into the same problems that you'd run into with Riak.
Issuing a lock is, however, a great way to get started if you only plan on
having a single web/app server in front of Riak for a while.

Once you get your application up and running you can take some time and
research distributed lock servers for your username management.

Or you can just take the easy route and push all user creates through a
single server.

---
Jeremiah Peschka
Founder, Brent Ozar Unlimited
Microsoft SQL Server MVP



On Sun, Nov 18, 2012 at 5:00 AM, Guido Medina wrote:

&gt; Atomicity is always a delicate subject, but it could be resolved with
&gt; either the following solutions:
&gt;
&gt; 1. Your application can have a re-entrant or synchronized lock: 
&gt; \*lock(username)
&gt; { create if not present then exit lock; if present then return to user
&gt; asking for another username }\*
&gt; 2. Or you could use standard SQL database with a dummy table with just
&gt; one column: username primary key, create and lock record on database, once
&gt; out of the lock you will know if create key in Riak or if return back to
&gt; user to ask for another user name.
&gt; 3. A distributed lock manager:
&gt; http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Distributed\_lock\_manager
&gt;
&gt; I would go for solution No. 1 if running on a single server or No. 3
&gt; otherwise if you can implement it. Or you could start with solution No. 1
&gt; and migrate to No. 3 as your data grows.
&gt;
&gt; HTH,
&gt;
&gt; Guido.
&gt;
&gt; On 18/11/12 03:58, Petrushka Petrushka wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Riak newbie here :)
&gt;
&gt; I'm building an application that among other things includes a
&gt; traditional Forum, kind of like phpBB. I'm working on the data model and
&gt; wondering how to guarantee the uniqueness of a username when a new user
&gt; registers an account.
&gt;
&gt; Of course, before saving a new username, I will first do a read to make
&gt; sure the key ( username ) is not found.
&gt;
&gt; But, what I'm worried about is what happens if in between the time of
&gt; the read and the write, two separate users connected to different servers
&gt; (possibly geographically apart) try to register a new user with the same
&gt; username.
&gt;
&gt; I see Riak has conflict resolution built in, but the default mechanisms
&gt; appear to favor the most recent update.
&gt;
&gt; I actually want the reverse, I want to favor the oldest update.
&gt;
&gt; It seems I could accomplish this by the following:
&gt;
&gt; a) Set allow\_mult=true
&gt; b) always pass in a timestamp
&gt; c) Sleep 1 second for good measure
&gt; d) Do a read operation on the same key. During conflicts, my client will
&gt; see multiple siblings. My client can choose the oldest timestamp and
&gt; repost that one's X-Riak-Vclock to be the canonical one.
&gt;
&gt; Now all this being said I have a couple of other options.
&gt;
&gt; - For these kinds of essentially ACID -like operations (of which this is
&gt; really the only one I can think of in my whole application) I could use
&gt; another database such as Redis.
&gt;
&gt; - Assuming N-Value is the default of 3, I could set R=3 and W = 3 on
&gt; Reads and Writes. My understanding is that would help in some situations
&gt; but still doesn't really solve this issue (in terms of an atomic lock if
&gt; you will).
&gt;
&gt; - Or, thinking about it more, the end user really won't have any idea
&gt; that they were the first or not to reserve that username. This whole thing
&gt; is very edge case anyways, as 2 or more people would have
&gt; to independently choose the same username that was available less than a
&gt; second before. I could just use Riak's default conflict resolution
&gt; (possibly even last\_write\_wins=true). They would never know that I am
&gt; actually assigning the username to the most recent person, instead of first
&gt; person. It strikes me as a little bit unfair in a way :) Really it is
&gt; splitting hairs though.
&gt;
&gt; But all this said I'd be curious on how people are handing these kinds
&gt; of things and if I'm thinking about this issue in a reasonable manner.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing 
&gt; listriak-users@lists.basho.comhttp://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

