---
title: "Re: Achieving 100% consitency"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-08-30T12:33:25-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04524"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04520"
author_name: "Jeremiah Peschka"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-08-30T12:33:25-07:00
---


That's the advice I usually give and the exact same reasons I give it. 

In an off-list email (as Jonathan knows), I equated it to saying "You should 
never do RDBMS development without a big enterprise grade server with $500k of 
SAN behind it." I typically say to build a dev environment that is as close to 
production as will give you production-like performance. Putting 3 nodes on my 
crappy stock laptop HDD isn't going to give me anything remotely like a 
production environment (well… there is always EC2 performance). 

We see these questions a lot on the list and I don't feel that telling clients 
"Well, it's gonna suck until you get it into production" isn't the best 
possible answer. A lot of people seem to be developing on 3-node clusters made 
out of Mac Minis, HP micro servers, and EC2; but even more people seem to be 
developing on laptops and wondering why they're seeing horrible performance.

---
Jeremiah Peschka - Founder, Brent Ozar PLF, LLC
Microsoft SQL Server MVP

On Aug 30, 2011, at 11:56 AM, Jonathan Langevin wrote:

&gt; Agreed, if your intention is to grow the existing single-node instance into a 
&gt; multi-node cluster, then yes, that's a problem.
&gt; For our own development environment, we run a single-node instance for our 
&gt; current stage of development, then once our app is more stable, we'll drop 
&gt; that single-node instance and create a proper 3+ node cluster for a dev 
&gt; environment that will look closer to the final production setup.
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; Jonathan Langevin
&gt; Systems Administrator
&gt; Loom Inc.
&gt; Wilmington, NC: (910) 241-0433 - jlange...@loomlearning.com - 
&gt; www.loomlearning.com - Skype: intel352
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Tue, Aug 30, 2011 at 2:24 PM, Scott Lystig Fritchie 
&gt;  wrote:
&gt; Jonathan Langevin  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; jl&gt; Even for development-purposes only? Otherwise it seems data would be
&gt; jl&gt; written n times to the same machine, which is needless in a dev
&gt; jl&gt; environment with low storage specs...
&gt; 
&gt; ... which would be true until the 1-node cluster grows to a 2-node or
&gt; N-node cluster. Changing the N value of a key that already exists,
&gt; especially where N is increasing relative to its old value, creates many
&gt; different kinds of unpleasantness.
&gt; 
&gt; -Scott
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

