---
title: "Re: riak-users Digest, Vol 40, Issue 3"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-01-16T22:21:32-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg09825"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg09824"
author_name: "Alexander Sicular"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-01-16T22:21:32-08:00
---


I've had the same error. I kinda gave up and just use the previous version for 
development. Meh. 


@siculars
http://siculars.posterous.com

Sent from my iRotaryPhone

On Jan 17, 2013, at 0:48, Evan Vigil-McClanahan  wrote:

&gt; Hi Sally.
&gt; 
&gt; That error can sometimes be misleading. It's quite likely that
&gt; there's nothing wrong with your app.config, but there is something
&gt; wrong with nodetool.
&gt; 
&gt; What is the output when you run:
&gt; bash -x riak chkconfig
&gt; ?
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Wed, Jan 16, 2013 at 9:25 PM, Sally Lehman  wrote:
&gt;&gt; Hi,
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; I've spent many hours trying to figure out what's going on here with no
&gt;&gt; resolution, any hint of where to look next would be greatly appreciated.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; While trying to get riak 1.2.1-x86\_64 started on Mac OS X Lion 10.7.5 to
&gt;&gt; test it out and experiment, I'm running into this error:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; $ riak start
&gt;&gt; Error reading /usr/local/Cellar/riak/1.2.1-x86\_64/libexec/etc/app.config
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Trying to use $escript app.config to debug this I get:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; $ escript app.config
&gt;&gt; app.config:2: syntax error before: '['
&gt;&gt; escript: There were compilation errors.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; I'm absolutely positive that this app.config is syntactically correct, as an
&gt;&gt; exactly identical app.config works for people I know with a similar OS and
&gt;&gt; configuration.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Here's the first five lines of code for the app.config:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; %% -\*- mode: erlang;erlang-indent-level: 4;indent-tabs-mode: nil -\*-
&gt;&gt; %% ex: ft=erlang ts=4 sw=4 et
&gt;&gt; [
&gt;&gt; %% Riak Client APIs config
&gt;&gt; {riak\_api, [
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Sally L
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

