---
title: "Re: Erlang API"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-06-09T11:49:08-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03620"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg03611"
author_name: "Anthony Molinaro"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-06-09T11:49:08-07:00
---


You can, I've done this, you have to modify the /etc/riak/vm.args to
include and start your application (assuming your application has a start/0)
function.

So if you have a foo app, you can add something like

-pa /usr/lib/erlang/lib/foo-0.0.0/ebin
-s foo\_app

Then if foo\_app.erl has something like

-module(foo\_app).

-export([start/0]).

-behaviour(application).
-export([start/2,stop/1]).

start() -&gt;
 application:start (foo).

start(\_,\_) -&gt;
 foo\_sup:start\_link().

stop (\_) -&gt;
 ok.

That should do it.

-Anthony

On Wed, Jun 08, 2011 at 11:49:28AM -0400, Evans, Matthew wrote:
&gt; Hi List,
&gt; 
&gt; I'm new to riak, and I am thinking of using riak to store log file / 
&gt; statistics information from a client application. The main benefit riak could 
&gt; offer here are its map-reduce/search capabilities.
&gt; 
&gt; The client side applications are developed in a variety of languages, but in 
&gt; the end all requests will be tunneled via a light weight API to our own 
&gt; Erlang "admin" application.
&gt; 
&gt; I've noticed that the riak Erlang API really dispatches requests to the riak 
&gt; cluster via the gen\_tcp module. The logging (insert) rate could be very high, 
&gt; so what would be neat is if I could embed our Erlang "admin" application 
&gt; directly into the riak cluster to avoid the IPC hop between the 
&gt; riak-erlang-client node and the riak node(s).
&gt; 
&gt; Now obviously I can fork the code and implement my own way of doing this, but 
&gt; the question is there an official way to embed your own code directly into a 
&gt; riak cluster to avoid that extra IPC hop?
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks
&gt; 
&gt; Matt

&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com


-- 
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Anthony Molinaro 

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

