---
title: "Re: How to make Riak work faster (writing)"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-11-02T12:10:41-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg09169"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg09165"
author_name: "Uruka Dark"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-11-02T12:10:41-07:00
---


Hi Dimitri,
I don't know why, but I could not receive your reply. I saw it following
the url of the mailing list.

Any way, thank you for your reply.

This is my PHP script:

\*php\*
\* require\_once "riak\_lib/riak.php";\*
\*
\*
\* if (isset($argv[1]))\*
\* {\*
\* define('HOST', $argv[1]);\*
\* }\*
\* else\*
\* {\*
\* define('HOST', '10.1.1.221');\*
\* }\*
\* define('PORT', 8098);\*
\*
\*
\* $client = new RiakClient(HOST, PORT);\*
\* $str = HOST . ":" . PORT;\*
\* if ($client-isAlive())\*
\* {\*
\* echo "$str - ALIVE\n";\*
\* }\*
\* else\*
\* {\*
\* echo "$str - DEAD\n";\*
\* die();\*
\* }\*
\*
\*
\* $bucket = $client-&gt;bucket('zbucket');\*
\* $bucket-&gt;setNVal(2);\*
\*
\*
\* $cnt = 0;\*
\* $last = time();\*
\* $data = '';\*
\* for ($i=0; $i&lt;10240; $i++)\*
\* {\*
\* $data .= 'A';\*
\* }\*
\*
\*
\* // main loop\*
\* for ($i=0; true; $i++)\*
\* {\*
\* $obj = $bucket-&gt;newObject(NULL, $data . $i);\*
\* $obj-&gt;store();\*
\* $cnt++;\*
\* if (time() - $last == 1)\*
\* {\*
\* echo "$cnt in $i\n";\*
\* $cnt = 0;\*
\* $last = time();\*
\* }\*
\* }\*
\*?&gt;\*


---------------------------

Uruka,

What does your load testing script look like? If you post the code
somewhere, I'll take a look to see if any obvious stumbling block comes to
mind. I agree, that's way lower than you should be getting with Riak on
that hardware.

Dmitri


On Fri, Nov 2, 2012 at 2:30 PM, Uruka Dark  wrote:

&gt; As I told, maybe I'm trying to use Riak in an improperly way, but this is
&gt; a kind of requirement for me and I expected to be able to do it with Riak.
&gt; I'm looking for a "NoSQL" solution and after try out a few of them, I think
&gt; that I have two great solutions, Couchbase and Riak. To me, Riak seems to
&gt; be much more mature, and this is my primary option, but, as I told, I can
&gt; achieve some numbers with Couchbase that I can't with Riak. Given the
&gt; maturity of Riak, I'm pretty sure that this is a configuration problem, but
&gt; I need some help to find out how to solve it. If any one could help me with
&gt; it, I'll be thankful. I don't want to give up on Riak so fast.
&gt; Thank you.
&gt;
&gt; On Fri, Nov 2, 2012 at 9:46 AM, Uruka Dark  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; I understand.
&gt;&gt; To eliminate any problems related to Bitcask, I changed to Memory backend
&gt;&gt; and now I can store roughly 80 objs/sec. This speed can be achieved hitting
&gt;&gt; just one of them.
&gt;&gt; I tried to hit both of them at same time, and the speed drops to roughly
&gt;&gt; 68 objs/sec (each).
&gt;&gt; Do you have any suggestion about it?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thank you.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Fri, Nov 2, 2012 at 9:20 AM, Sebastian Cohnen &lt;
&gt;&gt; sebastian.coh...@gmail.com&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; You should hit both servers and not just with a concurrency level of 1.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; There are many more factors to consider, but these are highly dependent
&gt;&gt;&gt; on your actual problem (not just a simple benchmark). Just to name a few:
&gt;&gt;&gt; bitcask settings (
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/tutorials/choosing-a-backend/Bitcask/#Tuning-Bitcask),
&gt;&gt;&gt; w-quorum, HTTP vs ProtoBuf, ring\_creation\_size, ...
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; On 02.11.2012, at 13:15, Uruka Dark  wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; I'm hitting just one of them.
&gt;&gt;&gt; At the beginning I tried to use the default settings (n\_val = 3), then I
&gt;&gt;&gt; started to create the bucket with n\_val = 2. I've tested a lot of
&gt;&gt;&gt; combinations to w, but I could not see any substantial improvement.
&gt;&gt;&gt; If you have any suggestion, please, let me know. I can do any test.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; On Fri, Nov 2, 2012 at 9:04 AM, Sebastian Cohnen &lt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; sebastian.coh...@gmail.com&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; What level of concurrency are you using in your test setup? Are you
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; hitting both servers with your test? What is your n\_val and w?
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; On 02.11.2012, at 03:42, Uruka Dark  wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; Hi,
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; I'm new here and with Riak. If I do something wrong, please, let me
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; know.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; I've made a Riak cluster with two identical machines: Intel core i3
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 2.3GHz 4GB RAM 1TB HD. They are connected by a gigabit ethernet network.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Everything is working fine. I'm using a Bitcask backend.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; I've made a PHP script to do a performance test and find out how fast
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Riak can be with these settings. What my script is doing is: to store 10000
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; objects with a 10K long data (string of 10240 x 'A'), and calculating how
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; many objects it stores per second.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; Right now, using Bitcask backend, it can store roughly 68 objects per
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; second. It seems to be a small number to me, but I don't know too much
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; about Riak. I've tested the same script on a Couchbase cluster, with the
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; same settings, and it could store roughly 1000 objects per second.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Obviously, on Couchbase test, the data is not sent to non-volatile media
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; immediately. Data is kept in memory to acknowledge the reception as fast as
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; possible, and is sent to non-volatile media in background. I want Riak to
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; behave the same way to increase the "writing speed", but I don't know how
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; to do it or if it is possible. May be I'm trying to do something completely
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; out of the purpose of Riak.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; I've tested Riak with Memory backend too, but it achieved only 72
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; objects per second. I expected it to work faster with Memory backend, cause
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; there is no disk activity involved on it, but the final result is not that
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; high.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; Again, I don't know if I'm trying to do something inappropriate. I
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; think I'm missing something.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; Is there any way to do it?
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; If I could not make myself clear, please, let me know.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; Thank you.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

