---
title: "Re: Riak search query timeout issues with 1.2.1 stable"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-12-14T08:34:12-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg09576"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg09428"
author_name: "Ryan Zezeski"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-12-14T08:34:12-08:00
---


Hi, comments inline

On Wed, Dec 5, 2012 at 8:10 AM, Abhinav Singh wrote:
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; We are facing an issue where search queries works fine on my local dev box
&gt; (which have riak-1.2.1rc2 installed).
&gt; However same queries timeout on our production boxes (which have
&gt; riak-1.2.1 installed):
&gt;
&gt; 2012-12-05 14:49:59.777 [error] &lt;0.1035.0&gt;@mi\_server:handle\_info:524
&gt; lookup/range failure:
&gt; {{badfun,#Fun},[{mi\_server,iterate,6},{mi\_server,lookup,8}]}
&gt;

Did you recently upgrade your production boxes? The 'badfun' error is an
indication that you currently have a "mixed" cluster. The error will occur
when two or more machines are involved and they are not all the same
version. This is a bug in Riak Search.


&gt;
&gt; This query does succeed sometimes (1-5%), but fails most of the times.
&gt; I want to know if the above logs indicate towards a particular error with
&gt; our riak cluster?
&gt;

Yes, so in 1-5% of the cases the nodes involved in a query are all the same
version. The reasons this is non-deterministic is because Riak Search uses
some randomness during query time to help spread load around.


&gt;
&gt; Since this query has never failed on my local development box,
&gt; I suspect either it has to do with something that changed between 1.2.1rc2
&gt; and 1.2.1-stable release or something that is related to our production
&gt; riak cluster.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
As I said above. I strongly suspect a mixed cluster scenario. That's the
only time I've seen an error like the above. The second email also
strongly indicates a mixed cluster scenario given the behavior you are
seeing.

-Z
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

