---
title: "Re: [ANN] Riak Release 0.11.0"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-06-11T11:27:59-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00566"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg00565"
author_name: "David Smith"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-06-11T11:27:59-07:00
---


Well, compaction does not mean that a partition is unavailable -- that is to
say, compaction happens in a non-blocking manner. So worst, case you'lll
have disk-related latency hits for a given partition, but requests should
still be getting served. Also, a single node only compacts a single
partition at a time.

FWIW, in my own testing, with a 50/50 read/write mix, compaction (based on
fragmentation %) typically doesn't happen that often, particularly when you
have a cluster of machines.

Hope that helps.

D.

On Fri, Jun 11, 2010 at 12:20 PM, Jason J. W. Williams &lt;
jasonjwwilli...@gmail.com&gt; wrote:

&gt; Is it smart enough to coordinate with the other partitions to ensure
&gt; not more than 25% (just a plug number) of the partitions are
&gt; compacting at the same time? It would seem to me there's the
&gt; possibility for a performance drop if you had the perfect storm of too
&gt; many shards compacting at the same time.
&gt;
&gt; -J
&gt;
&gt; On Fri, Jun 11, 2010 at 4:54 AM, Justin Sheehy  wrote:
&gt; &gt; Hi, Germain.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; On Fri, Jun 11, 2010 at 11:07 AM, Germain Maurice
&gt; &gt;  wrote:
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; Because of its append-only nature, stale data are created, so, how does
&gt; &gt;&gt; Bitcask to remove stale data ?
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; An excellent question, and one that we haven't yet written enough about.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; With CouchDB the compaction process on our data never succeed, too much
&gt; &gt;&gt; data.
&gt; &gt;&gt; I really don't like to have to launch manually this kind of process.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Bitcask's merging (compaction) process is automated and very tunable.
&gt; &gt; These parameters are the most relevant in your bitcask section of
&gt; &gt; app.config:
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; (see the whole thing at
&gt; http://hg.basho.com/bitcask/src/tip/ebin/bitcask.app)
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; %% Merge trigger variables. Files exceeding ANY of these
&gt; &gt; %% values will cause bitcask:needs\_merge/1 to return true.
&gt; &gt; %%
&gt; &gt; {frag\_merge\_trigger, 60}, % &gt;= 60% fragmentation
&gt; &gt; {dead\_bytes\_merge\_trigger, 536870912}, % Dead bytes &gt; 512 MB
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; %% Merge thresholds. Files exceeding ANY of these values
&gt; &gt; %% will be included in the list of files marked for merging
&gt; &gt; %% by bitcask:needs\_merge/1.
&gt; &gt; %%
&gt; &gt; {frag\_threshold, 40}, % &gt;= 40% fragmentation
&gt; &gt; {dead\_bytes\_threshold, 134217728}, % Dead bytes &gt; 128 MB
&gt; &gt; {small\_file\_threshold, 10485760}, % File is &lt; 10 MB
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Every few minutes, the Riak storage backend for a given partition will
&gt; &gt; send a message to bitcask, requesting that it queue up a possible
&gt; &gt; merge job. (only one partition will be in the merge process at once
&gt; &gt; as a result of that queue) The bitcask application will examine that
&gt; &gt; partition when that request reaches the front of the queue. If any of
&gt; &gt; the trigger values have been exceeded, then all of the files in that
&gt; &gt; partition which exceed any threshold values will be run through
&gt; &gt; compaction.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; This allows you a great deal of flexibility in your demands, and also
&gt; &gt; provides reasonable amortization of the cost since each partition is
&gt; &gt; processed independently.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; -Justin
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

