---
title: "Re: Riak Search Precommit Hook in 1.0"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-09-21T11:49:40-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04817"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04816"
author_name: "Dan Reverri"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-09-21T11:49:40-07:00
---


Hi Greg,

The "install" command has been removed from "search-cmd". The new strategy
is as follows:
\* The "search" bucket property must be "true" in order for the search
precommit to be executed
\* If the "precommit" property does NOT include the search precommit hook it
will be inserted at the beginning of the precommit list
\* If the "precommit" property does include the search precommit hook it will
be left in it's defined location

Thanks,
Dan

Daniel Reverri
Developer Advocate
Basho Technologies, Inc.
d...@basho.com


On Wed, Sep 21, 2011 at 11:09 AM, Greg Pascale  wrote:

&gt; A few questions
&gt;
&gt; 1) Is this fix in the RC1 build that just came out today?
&gt; 2) How exactly do search-cmd install, the "search" bucket property and the
&gt; precommit hook fit together now? I'm a bit unclear on what I actually need
&gt; to do to enable search on a bucket.
&gt;
&gt; Thanks.
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Greg
&gt; Clipboard
&gt;
&gt; On Tuesday, September 20, 2011 at 3:42 PM, Greg Pascale wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Man, it took a whole day after I complained about this to get it fixed?
&gt; You guys are such slackers! :)
&gt;
&gt; Thanks a bunch!
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Greg
&gt; Clipboard
&gt;
&gt; On Tuesday, September 20, 2011 at 1:47 PM, Andrew Thompson wrote:
&gt;
&gt; On Tue, Sep 20, 2011 at 10:53:28AM -0700, Greg Pascale wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Hi Jon,
&gt;
&gt; Thanks for getting back to me.
&gt;
&gt; I'm doing full-text indexing, but I don't need to keep the text around once
&gt; my object has been indexed, so I wrote a second precommit hook to remove the
&gt; text from the object. This reduces the size of my objects drastically (since
&gt; text tends to be the largest part) and has given us substantial perf gains
&gt; in our tests.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; I just pushed a fix for this. It should be present in the next 1.0
&gt; prerelease.
&gt;
&gt; https://github.com/basho/riak\_search/pull/87
&gt;
&gt; Andrew
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

