---
title: "Re: Introduction question"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-07-12T07:28:48-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03988"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg03987"
author_name: "Mathias Meyer"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-07-12T07:28:48-07:00
---


Anton,

1.) You can include custom headers stored with Riak objects, using the 
X-Riak-Meta-. These are specific for every Riak object.

2.) To allow just GET requests you'll be better off putting an HTTP aware 
filter or reverse proxy in front of your Riak cluster, which explicitly only 
enables GET requests. There's no way of disabling certain access methods for 
HTTP in Riak directly, at least as far as configuration goes.

As for your general question, it's hard to give a good answer without knowing 
more details about what your data looks like and, what read/write patterns you 
have. Providing us with some more details would help giving you an answer here. 
If you only access all data for a particular zip code in one go though, the 
answer would probably be yes.

Mathias Meyer
Developer Advocate, Basho Technologies


On Dienstag, 12. Juli 2011 at 15:04, Anton Podviaznikov wrote:

&gt; Hi, 
&gt; 
&gt; I just started with learning documentation and playing with Riak so I have 
&gt; few questions:
&gt; 
&gt; 1. Can I set custom HTTP headers for HTTP API?
&gt; 2. Can I enable e.x. just HTTP GET requests?
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; And general question:
&gt; e.x. I have list of zip codes and want to expose that data via REST(just for 
&gt; reading).
&gt; 
&gt; Is it good idea to use riak for such task? 
&gt; 
&gt; Best regards,
&gt; Anton Podviaznikov
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com



\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

