---
title: "Re: JSON / PB ?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-11-17T06:28:41-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05625"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg05623"
author_name: "Jeff Kirkell"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-11-17T06:28:41-08:00
---


You have a couple options. Using PB requires encoding the data for the trip
to Riak and decoding when pulling data out. You could use the AJAX call
from the client to call the server. The server then pulls does the
encode/decode piece and abstracts Riak much like normal web applications
do. The major difference in the approach between PB and not is the encode
that is done and the performance gains. You always want to put the server
as the intercept between the client and Riak because there is no inherent
security like you are used to in RDBMS.

When I am trying to get stuff prototyped, I tend to stick with JSON because
it is less work then add the encode and PB piece if and when I need the
performance.

Jeff

On Thursday, November 17, 2011, curiosity  wrote:
&gt; We are planning to design a website with Riak backend. Since website will
&gt; have AJAX calls to save/display data, we can send only JSON data from
server
&gt; to browser client, but website will also have binary data(images, audio,
&gt; video) etc. related to component objects.
&gt;
&gt; Our solution for now is to save all data in PB format, but sending data to
&gt; AJAX calls convert data from PB to JSON, but for RPC calls send data in PB
&gt; format. Is this good solution? Or any suggestions to save data?
&gt;
&gt; Thanks
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; View this message in context:
http://riak-users.197444.n3.nabble.com/JSON-PB-tp3515064p3515064.html
&gt; Sent from the Riak Users mailing list archive at Nabble.com.
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

