---
title: "Re: Interesting problem with riaksearch indexes"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-12-19T17:55:59-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06003"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg05915"
author_name: "Markus Silpala"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-12-19T17:55:59-08:00
---


Commented. Thanks. :-)

Conveniently, we \*do\* have a Riak EDS license where I'm working right now.
Can you point me to info on the anti-entropy feature you mentioned in the
bug report? That may also suit our needs.

-Markus

On Mon, Dec 12, 2011 at 9:59 AM, Ryan Zezeski  wrote:

&gt; Markus,
&gt;
&gt; I thought there was an issue created for this but alas there was not. I
&gt; went ahead and created one:
&gt;
&gt; https://issues.basho.com/show\_bug.cgi?id=1304
&gt;
&gt; If there is anything you would like to add (even if it's just a comment
&gt; that says "please fix this") then don't hesitate.
&gt;
&gt; -Ryan
&gt;
&gt; On Mon, Dec 12, 2011 at 10:19 AM, Markus Silpala wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Greetings, all.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I was combing Bugzilla and release notes this weekend to find out whether
&gt;&gt; the search-indices-not-so-fault-tolerant has been fixed yet. Nothing I
&gt;&gt; found seemed to match exactly. Is the issue still present?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; If so I think I'll go open a bug for it—I just didn't want to create a
&gt;&gt; duplicate if it's already been done.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks much,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; -Markus S
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Aug 22, 2011, at 10:18 PM, Ryan Zezeski wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; The reason for the nondeterministic behavior is two-fold.
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; 1. For performance reasons Search only ever reads from 1 node (R=1)
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; 2. As an attempt to balance load and reduce vnode contention this node
&gt;&gt; is selected randomly
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; I realize this sucks and isn't in line with Riak's more fault
&gt;&gt; tolerant behavior. It does suck. I hate the fact that I have to write
&gt;&gt; this email basically telling you this part of Search is broken, IMO. I
&gt;&gt; want to see it addressed and I'm sure I'm not the only one. Right now our
&gt;&gt; internal ticket board is buzzing in anticipation for the new release.
&gt;&gt; After that there is a lot of love I want to give Search, this particular
&gt;&gt; issue included. I'd say it's only a matter of time.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

