---
title: "Re: Access log file"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-08-10T18:30:50-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04337"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04336"
author_name: "Dan Reverri"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-08-10T18:30:50-07:00
---


This part should be a separate section rather than included in the
riak\_kv section:
%% Enable logging
{webmachine, [{webmachine\_logger\_module, webmachine\_logger}]},


Look at line 209 here:
http://pastie.org/2353333


The logger produces files in the "log/access" directory:
ls -al log/access/
total 8
drwxr-xr-x 7 dreverri staff 238 Aug 10 18:00 .
drwxr-xr-x 8 dreverri staff 272 Aug 10 14:59 ..
-rw-r--r-- 1 dreverri staff 0 Aug 10 14:59 access.log.2011\_08\_10\_21
-rw-r--r-- 1 dreverri staff 168 Aug 10 15:00 access.log.2011\_08\_10\_22
-rw-r--r-- 1 dreverri staff 0 Aug 10 16:00 access.log.2011\_08\_10\_23
-rw-r--r-- 1 dreverri staff 0 Aug 10 17:00 access.log.2011\_08\_11\_00
-rw-r--r-- 1 dreverri staff 0 Aug 10 18:00 access.log.2011\_08\_11\_01


Thanks,
Dan

Daniel Reverri
Developer Advocate
Basho Technologies, Inc.
d...@basho.com


On Wed, Aug 10, 2011 at 6:20 PM, Craig Muth  wrote:
&gt;
&gt; &gt; Did you add the "http\_logdir" option to the "riak\_core" section?
&gt; Yes.
&gt; &gt; A pastie of your app.config might help as well.
&gt; http://pastie.org/2353285
&gt;
&gt; Will the log show a line for each request to riak (GET, PUT, etc)?  What is 
&gt; the name of the log file that's supposed to appear?
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; --Craig
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Wed, Aug 10, 2011 at 3:01 PM, Dan Reverri  wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi Craig,
&gt;&gt; Did you add the "http\_logdir" option to the "riak\_core" section? A pastie of 
&gt;&gt; your app.config might help as well.
&gt;&gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt; Dan
&gt;&gt; Daniel Reverri
&gt;&gt; Developer Advocate
&gt;&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt;&gt; d...@basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Tue, Aug 9, 2011 at 6:40 PM, Craig Muth  wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; I added {http\_logdir, "log/access"}, and {webmachine, 
&gt;&gt;&gt; [{webmachine\_logger\_module, webmachine\_logger}]}, to rel/riak/etc/app.config
&gt;&gt;&gt; Where should the access log file be showing up?  It's not showing up in 
&gt;&gt;&gt; rel/riak/log.
&gt;&gt;&gt; Also will the log show a line for each request to riak (GET, PUT, etc)?
&gt;&gt;&gt; --Craig
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

