---
title: "Re: Large Files"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-02-15T13:51:14-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06609"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06608"
author_name: "Nicholas Young"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-02-15T13:51:14-08:00
---


Hi Mark,

Thanks for the clear explanation. The EOL life announcement for Luwak
came as a surprise to me, and frankly, was a letdown. But I understood
because I, probably like several others on the list, thought it would
be replaced with something equally simple to use and maintain.

Yes, the distributed systems model and powerful query engine is part
of why I chose Riak for my application - but Luwak was a big influence
as well. And while I understand Basho needs to turn a profit on their
products (and software development is expensive), I also feel somewhat
baited - that the product I had planned to use was killed, and it's
replacement will be commercially released instead. I doubt I'm the
only one who feels this way.

Do you think something could be worked out for people in my situation
- who are bootstrapping and could use the technology? If so, let's
talk off list.

Nicholas

On Wed, Feb 15, 2012 at 3:01 PM, Mark Phillips  wrote:
&gt; Hi Nicholas,
&gt;
&gt; Excellent question.
&gt;
&gt; In at least one past email [1], Dizzy hinted that Basho was investigating a
&gt; new approach for large file storage on top of Riak. At this point I can say
&gt; that this new approach has been validated, and there is working code to go
&gt; along with it. However, the large file solution is currently part of a
&gt; larger, yet-to-be-released Basho product (let's call it "NewProd"), one
&gt; which will not be available under the Apache 2.0 license (like the vast
&gt; majority of our software), but that will be part of our suite of commercial
&gt; (read: "paid") offerings. NewProd's primary functionality will be to provide
&gt; an S3-like layer on top of stock Riak, and the large files will be a subset
&gt; of that. We'll start making some noise about NewProd in the weeks following
&gt; the official release of Riak 1.1 (which will be early next-week).
&gt;
&gt; As noted before, Luwak was at the end of life from a code perspective --
&gt; there were some design flaws that meant we could not use it (safely) on the
&gt; scale which NewProd needed. This does not mean that the new large file
&gt; functionality shipping with NewProd will never be released as open source,
&gt; but it will not be for the immediate future.
&gt;
&gt; With that, a few "ifs":
&gt;
&gt; \* If you're using Luwak in production, there's nothing to stop you from
&gt; continuing to do so. You'll just have to modify a few build scripts to make
&gt; sure Riak builds starting with version 1.1.
&gt; \* If you're building a new application and need large files, you're advised
&gt; to consider the new code (which, again, will be released commercially in a
&gt; few weeks).
&gt; \* If you're relying on Luwak as a mission-critical part of your
&gt; infrastructure but Basho ending support for it has you less than thrilled,
&gt; please email me.
&gt;
&gt; Apologies for being long-winded. Hope that helps. Happy to answer any follow
&gt; up questions.
&gt;
&gt; Mark
&gt;
&gt; [1]
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/pipermail/riak-users\_lists.basho.com/2012-January/007170.html
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Tue, Feb 14, 2012 at 9:01 AM, Nicholas Young
&gt;  wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; A few months ago, we were informed that Luwak would be unmaintained as
&gt;&gt; of the 1.1 release. I'm wondering, with the impending 1.1 release,
&gt;&gt; what does the roadmap for storing large files with Riak look like?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I've looked at using S3, Swift, and HDFS - and nothing seems to be as
&gt;&gt; simple to use as Luwak. (Plus, I admire the dedication that the Basho
&gt;&gt; team puts on developer experience. And as a one-man team - for the
&gt;&gt; moment, anyway - my work is much simpler when using Riak.) I've even
&gt;&gt; looked at using MongoDB's GridFS (but Mongo can be a pain in the ass
&gt;&gt; to scale out, from what I can see.)
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Any news, no matter how speculative, would be appreciated. Those of us
&gt;&gt; who were planning to use, or are actively using Luwak, just need to
&gt;&gt; know where the project is headed. Thanks!
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Nicholas
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

