---
title: "Re: basho bench - custom value generator"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-09-14T06:15:24-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01076"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg01075"
author_name: "Sean Cribbs"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-09-14T06:15:24-07:00
---


The Args list in the configuration is the actual list of arguments when given 
to erlang:apply (length of list must match the function arity), not a single 
argument that's a list (subtle difference). If you want the latter, make it a 
nested list, e.g. [[{option,value}]].

Sean Cribbs 
Developer Advocate
Basho Technologies, Inc.
http://basho.com/

On Sep 13, 2010, at 10:04 PM, Joseph Lambert wrote:

&gt; I found that changing
&gt; 
&gt; erlang:apply(Module, Function, [Id] ++ Args);
&gt; 
&gt; to 
&gt; 
&gt; Module:Function([Id] ++ Args);
&gt; 
&gt; in basho\_bench\_valgen, got rid of the error. I'm not sure the reason why.
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; - Joe Lambert
&gt; 
&gt; joseph.g.lamb...@gmail.com
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Mon, Sep 13, 2010 at 6:38 PM, Joseph Lambert  
&gt; wrote:
&gt; Hi,
&gt; 
&gt; I'm trying to create a custom value generator for Basho Bench, but keep 
&gt; getting this error:
&gt; 
&gt; escript: exception error: no match of right hand side value 
&gt; {error,
&gt; {bad\_return,
&gt; {{basho\_bench\_app,start,[normal,[]]},
&gt; {'EXIT',
&gt; {{badmatch,{error,shutdown}},
&gt; [{basho\_bench\_app,start,2},
&gt; {application\_master,start\_it\_old,4}]}}}}}
&gt; in function basho\_bench:main/1
&gt; in call from escript:run/2
&gt; in call from escript:start/1
&gt; in call from init:start\_it/1
&gt; in call from init:start\_em/1
&gt; 
&gt; =INFO REPORT==== 13-Sep-2010::18:21:50 ===
&gt; application: basho\_bench
&gt; exited: {bad\_return,{{basho\_bench\_app,start,[normal,[]]},
&gt; {'EXIT',{{badmatch,{error,shutdown}},
&gt; [{basho\_bench\_app,start,2},
&gt; {application\_master,start\_it\_old,4}]}}}}
&gt; type: permanent
&gt; 
&gt; It seems to fail right when it calls erlang:apply() on the function, and 
&gt; never seems to enter my custom function. 
&gt; 
&gt; I have this in the basho bench config file:
&gt; 
&gt; {value\_generator, {function, rpbc\_thread\_gen, new\_thread, [{user\_count, 
&gt; 10000}] } }.
&gt; 
&gt; Args is just passing in a tuple list, and my rpbc\_thread\_gen module looks 
&gt; like this: 
&gt; 
&gt; new\_thread(Args) -&gt;
&gt; fun() -&gt; do\_new\_thread(Args) end.
&gt; 
&gt; do\_new\_thread simply returns binary, but like I said, it never seems to enter 
&gt; the new\_thread() function.
&gt; 
&gt; I've also made sure to add my module to the modules list in the .app file and 
&gt; all the example tests run fine.
&gt; 
&gt; I'm not sure what I am missing here, hopefully someone can point me in the 
&gt; right direction.
&gt; 
&gt; Another question, is there anyway to pass the generated key to my custom 
&gt; value generator, or do I also need to write a new driver as well?
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks!
&gt; 
&gt; - Joe Lambert
&gt; 
&gt; joseph.g.lamb...@gmail.com
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

