---
title: "Re: Java client API"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-03-23T14:52:24-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg02720"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg02719"
author_name: "Kevin Downey"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-03-23T14:52:24-07:00
---


Record or Document are alternatives I'd prefer over Entry (prefixed
with Riak or not)

On Wed, Mar 23, 2011 at 2:25 PM, Jon Brisbin  wrote:
&gt;
&gt; On Mar 23, 2011, at 3:21 PM, Kresten Krab Thorup wrote:
&gt;
&gt; From the client side, the moniker RiakObject is actually not too good.  In
&gt; technical terms, it is of cause a riak\_object  - but to a Java programmer,
&gt; it doesn't feel right for it to have that name.  It's more like a
&gt; KeyValueHolder, a RiakEntry (makes you think of Map.Entry), or something
&gt; like that.  I'll vote for calling it RiakEntry, or just plain Entry (we have
&gt; name spaces in Java, you know...)
&gt;
&gt; I personally don't like using ambiguous short names. I get that you can
&gt; technically distinguish things by package name but using a simple name that
&gt; is very common isn't good for code readability. "RiakEntry" is unambiguous,
&gt; self-documenting, and semantically correct. "Entry" would, in my mind,
&gt; represent a very generic interface that defined various kinds of "Entry"s of
&gt; things.
&gt;
&gt; It is hard to convey that it is important to get one of these "riak
&gt; objects", update it, and stash it back in there.  I.e. the fact that a
&gt; RiakEntry has the "optimistic concurrency state" (in popular speek) needed
&gt; to later do the update.   One naturally just want to create a new one and
&gt; put into the store; and that aspect should perhaps be hinted in the name of
&gt; this core class, and in the flow of the API.
&gt; Perhaps, for this very reason, store() should be an operation \*directly on
&gt; the RiakEntry\*; and then guide people by the way these are obtained.
&gt;
&gt; This feels like a Grails GORM convention. Using finders and calling save
&gt; directly on the object you're working with. I guess it's more a matter of
&gt; personal preference, but I'm not sure I like it as a general rule. It's not
&gt; a very object-oriented approach, either, as it mixes concerns a little too
&gt; much, in my mind.
&gt;
&gt;     RiakClient renamed to Riak
&gt;     RiakObject renamed to Entry
&gt;
&gt; IMHO the name "Riak" for a client doesn't feel semantically correct to me.
&gt; Its also a little ambiguous. It's a Riak what? "Riak" the noun refers to the
&gt; server, not a client which can connect to it.
&gt; While I don't agree with dropping the Riak part of RiakEntry, I do think the
&gt; name "entry" is consistently used in the Riak docs and should be carried
&gt; over rather than use the more ambiguous term "Object".
&gt;
&gt;     Bucket b = c.get("people");
&gt;
&gt; Again there's the issue of mixing concerns. Does the helper class describe a
&gt; resource or operate on the resource? In this case it does both. Just not
&gt; sure everyone feels the same about compressing these together. Dynamic
&gt; language fans might like this approach because it's results in less "stuff"
&gt; overall to keep track of. OO folks, though, might not feel comfortable with
&gt; that paradigm.
&gt; Whichever approach you end up choosing someone's going to hate anyway and
&gt; tell you you should have picked the other one. ;)
&gt; Truth be told, I'm not a die-hard OO fan. I'd rather use Erlang or Haskell
&gt; if I could!
&gt;
&gt; Thanks!
&gt;
&gt; Jon Brisbin
&gt;
&gt; http://jbrisbin.com
&gt; Twitter: @j\_brisbin
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;     // example 1
&gt;     Entry e = b.get("russelb");   // does GET /riak/people/russeldb
&gt;     e.set("application/json", "{ name: \"Russel Brown\" }" );
&gt;     e.store();
&gt; Then, have a special method to create new entries:
&gt;     // example 2
&gt;     Entry e2 = b.create("krab");     // does not issue GET /riak/people/krab
&gt;     b.set("Kresten Krab Thorup"); // implies text/plain;charset=utf-8
&gt;     b.store();
&gt; The latter (example 2) would issue a "PUT" w/no vector clock; whereas the
&gt; former (example 1) automatically grabs the vector clock from the GET.  If
&gt; you sure Bucket.get("no-such-key") then the only "harm done" is that you
&gt; spent an extra round trip to the server trying to find the VC for
&gt; no-such-key.
&gt; In fluent style, this would be
&gt;     c.getBucket("people").get("krab").set("Kresten Crap Throwup").store();
&gt;     // and/or
&gt;     c.get("people", "krab").set("XXX").store();
&gt; Which captures the flow that the vector clock needs to be there for the
&gt; store.
&gt; Likewise, this will make it much more sound to delete things, because you
&gt; also need the entry (includin gth VC) to delete an object properly
&gt; bucket.get("krab").delete()
&gt; makes a lot more sense than
&gt;        bucket.create("krab").delete()
&gt; WHICH IS GREAT!  Because we want people to pass in VC to delete operations
&gt; ... those should really also be replayable, which I am sure they will be one
&gt; day :-)
&gt;
&gt; Kresten
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Mar 23, 2011, at 11:05 , Russell Brown wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Hi,
&gt; I'm trying to make the Java client easier to use and less tied to underlying
&gt; implementation so I've started designing a new API.
&gt; I've put some interfaces up
&gt; at https://github.com/russelldb/riak-java-client-api
&gt; I'd really appreciate any comments you may have.
&gt; My intention is to adapt the existing client(s) to these interfaces and
&gt; deprecate the old client API gradually (so there will be backward
&gt; compatibility for a few releases.) I'll also be reusing the existing client
&gt; implementations underneath the API, this isn't a wholesale re-write.
&gt; I hope you can take some time to let me know what you think. I'll put my
&gt; thickest skin on.
&gt; Many thanks
&gt; Russell
&gt; PS It is all maven'd up so just clone and mvn eclipse:eclipse if you want to
&gt; get a good look.
&gt; 
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;



-- 
And what is good, Phaedrus,
And what is not good—
Need we ask anyone to tell us these things?

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

