---
title: "Re: Issues regarding the installation of Riak in EC2"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-01-31T17:02:04-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06482"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06481"
author_name: "Mark Phillips"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-01-31T17:02:04-08:00
---


There is a lot of collected knowledge floating around about running
Riak on EC2 (both internally at Basho and in the greater community).
It's probably time we formalized it in the wiki for the good of all
Riak users. If you'll indulge me, I think we should take a stab at
outlining what a "Riak on EC2" Section should contain. To get us
started:

\* Ports and Port Management
\* Security
\* Backups
\* Recommended Instances
\* CloudFormation Templates

What else needs to be here?

Mark

On Tue, Jan 31, 2012 at 3:12 PM, Paul Armstrong  wrote:
&gt; At 2012-01-31T17:53-0500, Jeff Kirkell wrote:
&gt;&gt;    You also need a security rule to allow the handoff port between the
&gt;&gt;    two instances and not the outside world. I apologies for not recalling
&gt;&gt;    how to do off the top of my head but as Carl said, it is in the
&gt;&gt;    security firewall rules on the EC2 dashboard.
&gt;
&gt; AWS Management Console -&gt; EC2 -&gt; Network & Security -&gt; Security Groups
&gt;
&gt; Select group -&gt; Inbound -&gt; Add port (e.g. 8098) -&gt; Add source -&gt; Add Rule
&gt; Note that the source can also be the name of a security group, so if all
&gt; your riak hosts have the "riak" security group you can use that instead
&gt; of an IP address.
&gt;
&gt; Click "Apply Rule Changes" when you've done all of them.
&gt;
&gt; In general, it's better to use the CLI tool chains (either the Amazon
&gt; one or the Boto one), but this will get things going.
&gt;
&gt; Paul
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

