---
title: "Re: Riak Adoption - What can we do better?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-04-20T06:41:49-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07257"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg07256"
author_name: "Ephraim Mower"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-04-20T06:41:49-07:00
---


Mathias's book is great. I'd love to see more detail in Riak wiki, or maybe
a separate reference section. For instance, where are the details of
available Action arguments for for map\_object\_value, or for that matter the
list of available built-in m/r functions? As far as I know, you've got to
dig into riak\_kv\_mapreduce.erl\* \*to find out. Riak is easy to set up and
use, but once you get past basic use-cases, getting information isn't as
simple as it could be.

-Cork

On Fri, Apr 20, 2012 at 3:27 AM, Matthew Tovbin  wrote:

&gt; Riak is one of the simplest KV stores I used so far. Almost zero learning
&gt; curve
&gt; and ease of setup makes it a great tool to start working with. Moreover,
&gt; later you
&gt; got rewarded by an outstanding stability and minimal maintenance even at
&gt; large
&gt; scale.
&gt;
&gt; So, the only obstacle I see in adoption of Riak lays in understanding the
&gt; general
&gt; datastore design principles using KV store, which probably is better to be
&gt; explained by thoughtful examples.
&gt;
&gt; IMHO, it'll be nice for newbies to have an online live demo system(s)
&gt; populated
&gt; with some actual data and based on Riak  and
&gt; Webmachine,
&gt; allowing playing
&gt; with
&gt; it both manually and programmatically.
&gt; Such demo will serve as display of applied Riak data design patterns.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; -Matthew
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Thu, Apr 19, 2012 at 20:40, Jeremy Raymond  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; +1 for better online docs (wiki). I also don't read them anymore and
&gt;&gt; also go to the source to figure out what to do or ask on the list.
&gt;&gt; Also using the Erlang client.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; Jeremy
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Apr 19, 2012, at 11:31 PM, Daniil Churikov  wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; I wonder why you all ask a book, when there is no any docs on most
&gt;&gt; wanted
&gt;&gt; &gt; features at all, or they are outdated. E.g. to find how to use 2i
&gt;&gt; queries in
&gt;&gt; &gt; erlang i dive into sources, not docs. I really like riak, but look for
&gt;&gt; &gt; example on mongodb docs, it is solid and useful, you could easily find
&gt;&gt; any
&gt;&gt; &gt; topic you intresting in. Make it better for use and you will get what
&gt;&gt; you
&gt;&gt; &gt; want.
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; --
&gt;&gt; &gt; View this message in context:
&gt;&gt; http://riak-users.197444.n3.nabble.com/Riak-Adoption-What-can-we-do-better-tp3923737p3924975.html
&gt;&gt; &gt; Sent from the Riak Users mailing list archive at Nabble.com.
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

