---
title: "Re: auto-generating keys in riak"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-04-26T10:18:31-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00179"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg00178"
author_name: "Matthew Heitzenroder"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-04-26T10:18:31-07:00
---


Alexander-

Check out the function in riak\_core:riak\_core\_util

http://github.com/basho/riak/blob/master/apps/riak\_core/src/riak\_core\_util.erl#L126

I
think it's something like 2^42 at that moment in time (now() is appended to
the uid), for a collision to take place.

Cheers,
Matt

On Mon, Apr 26, 2010 at 8:52 AM, Alexander Sicular wrote:

&gt; When doing a POST against a bucket without indicating a key, riak
&gt; auto-generates a 27 characted mixedcase alphanum (with possibly + 2 other
&gt; chars for radix(64) ) unique ID.... How does it do that? What's the seed?
&gt; What guarantees of uniqueness are there? I take it even if there was a
&gt; conflict riak would default to it's vclock behavior...
&gt;
&gt; Interestingly, it looks like there are "contained" links set at the bucket
&gt; level for each of the keys created. How does that affect performance? like
&gt; lets say i wanted to use riak auto gen'd keys in a bucket that could have
&gt; tens of thousands of records in it... Would that block a GET on the bucket
&gt; over http once you have enough keys in the bucket? I think the limit is an
&gt; 8k header.
&gt;
&gt; And what if you wanted to modify props on a bucket, would you have to get
&gt; the bucket first, with links header, and then re-write with the new props
&gt; body and old links header? I thought you had to write link+body because if
&gt; you only write body you lose the links.
&gt;
&gt; Thanks, Alexander
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

