---
title: "Re: Key alias pattern"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-06-30T10:11:18-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03882"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg03880"
author_name: "Sean Cribbs"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-06-30T10:11:18-07:00
---


Adam,

It seems totally reasonable to add an additional key after authentication
from some other social network; that key being named with a unique
identifier from the external social network and linking to or otherwise
referencing your internal user profile information. You could then choose
to either keep a link from your internal profile keys to the network profile
keys, or simply merge the incoming profile information from the social
network into your internal version and track their identifiers separately.

-- 
Sean Cribbs 
Developer Advocate
Basho Technologies, Inc.
http://www.basho.com/


On Thu, Jun 30, 2011 at 12:17 PM, Adam Lindsay  wrote:

&gt; Hi all,
&gt;
&gt; I was wondering if there's an established pattern where the value of one
&gt; key can consistently be accessed via a different key. I'm thinking of
&gt; something analogous to an HTTP 303 See Other.
&gt;
&gt; I imagine I could achieve this via link walking, but that suggests applying
&gt; a level of indirection to just about everything, or initiating all link
&gt; walks with both the direct and indirect case.
&gt;
&gt; Hmm. That's pretty abstract. How about this:
&gt;
&gt; I have a bunch of stub user profiles that could be generated via multiple
&gt; social networks. Once the user establishes their credentials on our system,
&gt; it would be good to be able to reference existing data via a new,
&gt; internally-generated user id without special-casing any link walks or
&gt; map-reduces.
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Adam Lindsay
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

