---
title: "Re: map-reduce Problem ?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-11-15T14:40:28-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01550"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg01549"
author_name: "Dan Reverri"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-11-15T14:40:28-08:00
---


The bucket/key pair is passed around in a 2-tuple:
https://github.com/basho/riak\_kv/blob/0093af40f8ba97038e98dd04dfea70ef889ff213/src/riak\_kv\_put\_fsm.erl#L84

Each
backend can manage the bucket/key pair however it wants. For example, the
Bitcask backend uses term\_to\_binary/1 to convert the bucket/key pair to a
single key:
https://github.com/basho/riak\_kv/blob/master/src/riak\_kv\_bitcask\_backend.erl#L98

When the backend lists keys in a bucket, it can extract the bucket name from
the key term:
h
ttps://github.com/basho/riak\_kv/blob/master/src/riak\_kv\_bitcask\_backend.erl#L123

Thanks,
Dan

Daniel Reverri
Developer Advocate
Basho Technologies, Inc.
d...@basho.com


On Mon, Nov 15, 2010 at 2:11 PM, Alexander Sicular wrote:

&gt; So I get that riak is not bucket aware. When you pass a bucket as an
&gt; input in an m/r, as riak sifts through all the keys, how does riak
&gt; isolate bucket specific keys? Are keys stored as /bucket/key internaly
&gt; and there is a string comparison on split(key,'/') ? Or is there
&gt; something else going on.
&gt;
&gt; Thank you.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On 2010-11-15, Kevin Smith  wrote:
&gt; &gt; We are giving some thought on how to do that. The main issues wrt to
&gt; &gt; bitcask's key listing performance is that bitcask is not bucket aware and
&gt; &gt; lacks the notion of secondary indices. Not being bucket aware means
&gt; bitcask
&gt; &gt; has to examine all bucket/key pairs to find the ones related to a given
&gt; &gt; bucket. This isn't to say we won't address the problem but merely to
&gt; point
&gt; &gt; out there's some engineering work required to solve the problem
&gt; correctly.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; innostore is moderately bucket-aware right now so I've forked it
&gt; &gt; (http://github.com/kevsmith/innostore) and added bucket-aware key
&gt; listing.
&gt; &gt; Based on some very basic testing I'm seeing 2.5x speed up in overall key
&gt; &gt; listing performance compared to the official version. I'm hoping the
&gt; patch,
&gt; &gt; or a modified form of it, will make the next release. If you can handle
&gt; inno
&gt; &gt; being a bit slower than bitcask and slightly more difficult to set up and
&gt; &gt; tune then this might be an option for you.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; I've done some basic vetting of the code but I want to emphasize this is
&gt; a
&gt; &gt; prototype only and hasn't received anything even close to the normal
&gt; amount
&gt; &gt; of testing we put into a release. Please keep this in mind if you decide
&gt; to
&gt; &gt; use my forked repo.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; --Kevin
&gt; &gt; On Nov 15, 2010, at 11:57 AM, Greg Steffensen wrote:
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; Along these lines, are there any ideas floating around about how to
&gt; speed
&gt; &gt;&gt; up the listing of keys in a bucket? For the bitcask backend, it seems
&gt; &gt;&gt; like an index of keys-by-bucket ought to be the kind of thing that could
&gt; &gt;&gt; be stored in the hints files to speed this up without affecting
&gt; &gt;&gt; performance for live reads and writes.
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; Greg
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; On Mon, Nov 15, 2010 at 11:46 AM, Sean Cribbs  wrote:
&gt; &gt;&gt; This is possible with Riak's MapReduce but you will likely have
&gt; increasing
&gt; &gt;&gt; difficulty as your dataset grows, because of the impact of needing to
&gt; list
&gt; &gt;&gt; keys in a bucket and then eliminate data points you aren't interested
&gt; in.
&gt; &gt;&gt; In the longer term, there will be improvements to MapReduce such that if
&gt; &gt;&gt; your keys are meaningful, you will be able to filter them more easily
&gt; &gt;&gt; (without examining the data first). You might find Kevin Smith's
&gt; overview
&gt; &gt;&gt; enlightening: http://www.slideshare.net/hemulen/riak-mapred-preso
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt; &gt;&gt; Developer Advocate
&gt; &gt;&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; &gt;&gt; http://basho.com/
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; On Nov 15, 2010, at 11:34 AM, Prometheus WillSurvive wrote:
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; Hi ,
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; We have a huge database (around 4 billion record - 30 TB) storing the
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; video watch infromation ie view count , comment , favorited etc. I want
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; to produce daily report for all videos view counts. It means I need to
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; look 2 day , today and yesterday so subtract yesterdey view count from
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; today view count so I can find the daliy impression. Our Fat DB team
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; doing this a few complex queries. I would like to ask you is this
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; possible with Riak map-reduce way . I want to make a demonstration to
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; the team to show this ..
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; This is the scenario. We have similar data models for other thins. This
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; could be a start.
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; We have 30xHP DL380 x32 Gig Ram Farm to test this scenario.
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; Any riak map-reduce experienced member can show some idea on this.. I
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; guess.
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; Regards
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; Prometheus
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Sent from my mobile device
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

