---
title: "Re: Issues with Riak Control"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-03-21T15:25:06-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07020"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg07018"
author_name: "charles"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-03-21T15:25:06-07:00
---


I've tried both Firefox 9 and Safari 5.


-----Original Message-----
From: "Tryn Mirell" 
Sent: Wednesday, 21 March, 2012 11:12pm
To: char...@contentomni.com
Cc: "riak-users" 
Subject: Re: Issues with Riak Control

Charles, 
What browser are you using to view this?

--
Tryn Mirell
Developer Advocate
t...@basho.com



On Wednesday, March 21, 2012 at 5:09 PM, char...@contentomni.com wrote:

&gt; I recently installed a Riak (1.1.1) Cluster on Rackspace Cloud Servers. 
&gt; Everything seems to be working ok.
&gt; 
&gt; I set up the configuration to enable Riak Control. However, I am having a few 
&gt; issues using it.
&gt; 
&gt; As soon as I login in it shows me the home page briefly and then it just 
&gt; displays the following in only text:
&gt; 
&gt; Current Snapshot...
&gt; 
&gt; Your cluster is healthy.
&gt; You currently have...
&gt; 0 Unreachable nodes
&gt; 0 Nodes marked as 'down'
&gt; 0 Nodes experiencing low memory
&gt; Nothing to worry about because Riak is your friend
&gt; Your cluster has problems.
&gt; The following nodes are currently unreachable:
&gt; The following nodes are currently marked as 'down':
&gt; The following nodes are currently experiencing low memory:
&gt; 
&gt; The URL has also changed from https://:8069/admin/ui/index.html to 
&gt; https://:8069/admin/ui/templates/snapshot.pjax. It's like it's forcing 
&gt; some kind of redirection and I don't know why.
&gt; 
&gt; Kindly assist,
&gt; 
&gt; Charles.
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; 





\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

