---
title: "Re: [ANN] Riak Release 0.11.0"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-06-09T13:48:04-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00546"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg00545"
author_name: "Jason J. W. Williams"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-06-09T13:48:04-07:00
---


Hi David,

Thank you for responding. On a separate note, will there be any way to
make Riak rack-aware for data distribution?

It's concerning for removing nodes that you can't guarantee there
aren't at least 2 out of 3/4 copies on different nodes.

-J

On Wed, Jun 9, 2010 at 2:21 PM, David Smith  wrote:
&gt; Jason,
&gt; Our testing has shown bitcask to have as good recovery as DETS (the previous
&gt; default backend), and MUCH better overall performance. However, I'm going to
&gt; stop short of saying definitively that the recovery of bitcask is as good
&gt; as/better than innostore, simply because we don't have enough data to
&gt; support it...yet. :)
&gt; I will say, however, that the append-only nature of bitcask minimizes the
&gt; opportunity to lose and/or corrupt data, not to mention obviating the need
&gt; for log files ala InnoDB.
&gt; D.
&gt;
&gt; On Wed, Jun 9, 2010 at 1:59 PM, Jason J. W. Williams
&gt;  wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Does the bitcask back end handle crash recovery as well as the
&gt;&gt; InnoStore backend?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; -J
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Wed, Jun 9, 2010 at 1:55 PM, Jon Meredith  wrote:
&gt;&gt; &gt; Hello, Riak users.  We are excited to announce the release of Riak
&gt;&gt; &gt; version
&gt;&gt; &gt; 0.11.
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; Pre-built installations and source tarballs are available at:
&gt;&gt; &gt; http://downloads.basho.com/
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; Release notes are at (also copied below):
&gt;&gt; &gt; http://downloads.basho.com/riak/riak-0.11/riak-0.11.0.txt
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; IMPORTANT: If you are upgrading an existing Riak cluster, please read
&gt;&gt; &gt; the
&gt;&gt; &gt; transition document at
&gt;&gt; &gt; http://bitbucket.org/basho/riak/src/4235ceeb8d6/TRANSITION
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; Cheers,
&gt;&gt; &gt; The Basho Riak Team
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; -------------------------
&gt;&gt; &gt; Riak 0.11.0 Release Notes
&gt;&gt; &gt; -------------------------
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; Bitcask has arrived as the new default backend for Riak.  Bitcask is
&gt;&gt; &gt; Basho's
&gt;&gt; &gt; new key/value store that should provide good balanced performance out
&gt;&gt; &gt; of the box on most systems.  Read more about it from the initial
&gt;&gt; &gt; announcement here http://blog.basho.com/2010/04/27/hello,-bitcask/
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; Users that wish to upgrade from another backend will need to backup
&gt;&gt; &gt; their
&gt;&gt; &gt; cluster (using riak-admin) before changing the backend in app.config,
&gt;&gt; &gt; restart
&gt;&gt; &gt; riak and restore from the backup into bitcask.
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; The protocol buffers client (PBC) interface has been enhanced to
&gt;&gt; &gt; add map/reduce support and access to simple bucket properties.  The
&gt;&gt; &gt; erlang and python clients have been updated accordingly.
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; Put operations using the local erlang client that request a returnbody
&gt;&gt; &gt; have received a performance enhancement.  Internally the put operation
&gt;&gt; &gt; now returns the body directly, so an additional get is no longer
&gt;&gt; &gt; required.  The PBC and HTTP interfaces have been updated to use
&gt;&gt; &gt; this new mechanism.
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; Enhancements
&gt;&gt; &gt; --------
&gt;&gt; &gt;  58 - provide default content-type of application/octet-stream if none
&gt;&gt; &gt;        present in the object.
&gt;&gt; &gt;  74 - create ring directory if non-existant
&gt;&gt; &gt; 142 - riak-admin leave restored
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; Bugs Fixed
&gt;&gt; &gt; ----------
&gt;&gt; &gt;  35 - {error, blah} messages are now passed on to javascript map/reduce
&gt;&gt; &gt; jobs
&gt;&gt; &gt; 104 - missing bucket/key into map/reduce job crashed it. Fixed.
&gt;&gt; &gt; 193 - list keys sometimes uses downed nodes. Fixed.
&gt;&gt; &gt; 208 - deleting a key with a post-commit hook set crashed riak. Fixed.
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

