---
title: "Re: Weird (?) error while using riak erlang pb client's mapreduce"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-01-06T11:51:33-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06159"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06154"
author_name: "Alin Popa"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-01-06T11:51:33-08:00
---


Hi Bryan,

Thanks, it makes sense, indeed, I've done what you've suggested, to load
the code within riak (using add\_paths) and everything worked fine. Still, I
have a couple dilemas regarding this:

1. Why is not complaining if using escript instead of compiling it as a
separate module (and no, I'm not loading the code within riak this time) ?

\*#!/usr/bin/env escript\*
\*
\*
\*main([]) -&gt;\*
\* code:add\_patha("/Users/alin/riak-erlang-client/ebin"),\*
\* code:add\_patha("/Users/alin/riak-erlang-client/deps/protobuffs/ebin"),\*
\* {ok, Pid} = riakc\_pb\_socket:start\_link("127.0.0.1", 8087),\*
\* Fun = fun(Object, \_KeyData, none) -&gt; [Object] end,\*
\* io:format("Result: ~n~p~n",[riakc\_pb\_socket:mapred(Pid,
{&lt;&lt;"test-bucket"&gt;&gt;,[]}, [{map, {qfun, Fun}, none, true}])]).\*

this might be an erlang thing ?

2. I remember that running exactly the same code in the past (~ 1 month
ago), worked with no special intervention like adding code paths to riak.
In fact, that's why I've raised this problem now, as it doesn't make any
sense. Noticed this behavior on both release version (1.0.2) and master
branch from github.

Thanks,
Alin

On Fri, Jan 6, 2012 at 7:18 PM, Bryan Fink  wrote:

&gt; On Fri, Jan 6, 2012 at 10:18 AM, Alin Popa  wrote:
&gt; &gt; and this is the code that I'm using for this:
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; -module(simple\_mapreduce).
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; -compile(export\_all).
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; main(Pid) -&gt;
&gt; &gt; {ok, Pid} = riakc\_pb\_socket:start\_link("127.0.0.1", 8087),
&gt; &gt; Fun = fun(Object, \_KeyData, none) -&gt; [Object] end,
&gt; &gt; riakc\_pb\_socket:mapred(Pid, {&lt;&lt;"small-bucket"&gt;&gt;,[]}, [{map, {qfun,
&gt; Count},
&gt; &gt; none, true}]).
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; It's a very simple usage, and according to the documentation, I haven't
&gt; &gt; missed anything here (I know I can use the modfun instead of qfun for
&gt; &gt; exactly this functionality, but it's just an example which throws).
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Also, for the master version of riak, I'm getting error as return value
&gt; of
&gt; &gt; calling mapred function on riakc\_pb\_socket:
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; {error,&lt;&lt;"{\"phase\":0,\"error\":\"undef\",\"input\":\"{ok,{r\_object,&lt;&lt;\\\"small-bucket\\\"&gt;&gt;,&lt;&lt;\\\"some-magnific-key-44\\\"&gt;&gt;,[{r\_cont"...&gt;&gt;}
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Is there a way that I can understand what these logs means ?
&gt;
&gt; The clue is the "error:'undef'" field in the error message JSON you
&gt; received. Just like any undef error in an erlang program, it's
&gt; telling you the query tried to call a function that does not exist.
&gt;
&gt; The reason the function does not exist is that the Riak cluster does
&gt; not have access to your 'simple\_mapreduce' module. Since the
&gt; anonymous function you are submitting was created in that module, Riak
&gt; needs to be able to load the same version of it in order to evaluate
&gt; the function. If you had used modfun instead, you would have received
&gt; an error complaining that the module was unavailable.
&gt;
&gt; To make your module available to Riak, point the 'add\_paths' setting
&gt; in the riak\_kv section of your app.config to the directory containing
&gt; your module's compiled beam file.
&gt;
&gt; http://wiki.basho.com/Configuration-Files.html#add\_paths
&gt;
&gt; Also, be sure to reload the module on each riak cluster node (using
&gt; 'riak-admin erl\_reload' on the command line) after making changes and
&gt; recompiling your module.
&gt;
&gt; Hope that helps,
&gt; Bryan
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

