---
title: "Re: riak-erlang-client"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-01-10T14:48:45-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01943"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg01921"
author_name: "Anthony Molinaro"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-01-10T14:48:45-08:00
---


Hi Dan,

 I just managed to get a proper pull request sent to you for just the
documentation changes. Hopefully it works for you.

I also hope you guys consider joining back with the community of developers
working on erlang\_protobuffs so riak can be used along side other protobuff
based systems.

-Anthony

On Fri, Jan 07, 2011 at 03:57:45PM -0800, Anthony Molinaro wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; On Fri, Jan 07, 2011 at 03:38:45PM -0800, Dan Reverri wrote:
&gt; &gt; Hi Anthony,
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; Would you mind sending a pull request for the documentation updates without
&gt; &gt; the protobuffs changes?
&gt; 
&gt; I was trying to figure out how to do that, but it seems to be alluding me,
&gt; still a bit of a noob with git. I'll try to figure it out and do that.
&gt; 
&gt; &gt; Regarding the protobuffs changes, it would be best to apply the changes to a
&gt; &gt; fork of the basho/erlang\_protobuffs repository and send a pull request.
&gt; 
&gt; Well the whole point of this was that basho/erlang\_protobuffs is an ancient
&gt; fork that went to bitbucket, then when it came back was it's own separate
&gt; thing from the mainline (everything downstream of Nick Gerakine's original
&gt; implementation). I use the mainline for other projects which I also want
&gt; to use riak-erlang-client with. So the fact that it had it's own
&gt; implementation caused some conflicts. Thus I did the work to hand merge
&gt; the changes from the basho tree into the mainline (the seemed to just be
&gt; some minor iolist functions). The mainline has had some very nice recent
&gt; features, the handrolled parser was replaced with a leex/yecc one, and
&gt; support has been added for many protobuff features (like booleans, enums,
&gt; packed format, etc). So anyway, maybe there's a way to relink the
&gt; basho/erlang\_protobuffs into the mainline? (again I'm a bit of a git noob
&gt; so no idea if its possible to do that).
&gt; 
&gt; &gt; Regarding the buckets, they should be specified as binaries. I'll fix that
&gt; &gt; now.
&gt; 
&gt; Cool, I'll look for it.
&gt; 
&gt; -Anthony
&gt; 
&gt; -- 
&gt; ------------------------------------------------------------------------
&gt; Anthony Molinaro 
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

-- 
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Anthony Molinaro 

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

