---
title: "Re: DETS vs Innostore"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-04-28T09:35:13-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00199"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg00198"
author_name: "Abeming Sf"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-04-28T09:35:13-07:00
---


Sorry it's David...not Dave...:)

On 29 April 2010 00:32, Abeming Sf  wrote:

&gt; Hi Dave and wde,
&gt;
&gt; Thanks for ur explanation, it helps me to decide which storage backend
&gt; should I use. Appreciate that.
&gt;
&gt; Regards,
&gt; Abe
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On 28 April 2010 20:48, David Smith  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi Abe,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Mon, Apr 26, 2010 at 11:31 PM, Abeming Sf wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Hi,
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Data example : [{field, "value"}, {field, "value"}, {field, "value"}]
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; First observation -- that's only ~61 bytes of data when encoded into
&gt;&gt; binary -- which is pretty small. If you start storing larger chunks of data
&gt;&gt; (say 10k), you'll find that dets starts running into significant iowait
&gt;&gt; issues as it tries to flush the data to disk.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; I found out that storing 200k of data sequentially into dets is a lot
&gt;&gt;&gt; more faster than storing into innodb and dets only use around 350MB space
&gt;&gt;&gt; while innodb use around 1.1GB.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Yes, inno does introduce expansion, particularly when you are using very
&gt;&gt; small piece of data. I believe this has something to do with the way that
&gt;&gt; Inno allocates a 8 KB page per BLOB.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Also, in my other test which store 1 million data into dets, it only use
&gt;&gt;&gt; around 700MB++ of space (same data structure above).
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; It is recommended to use innostore for production right?What should I do
&gt;&gt;&gt; to make it better.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Whether or not you should use innostore vs. dets in production depends
&gt;&gt; heavily on what your access pattern is and how much data you plan to store.
&gt;&gt; If you've going to be storing many gigabytes of data, innostore will do much
&gt;&gt; better than dets as the dataset grows large. Innostore has better durability
&gt;&gt; mechanisms that dets as well, so that's something to consider too.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Dets is very fast in situations where you have a small-ish amount of data
&gt;&gt; and reads predominate your access pattern.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hope that helps.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; D.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Regards,
&gt;&gt;&gt; Abe
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

