---
title: "Re: Structured data"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-08-03T07:15:57-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00831"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg00830"
author_name: "James Sadler"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-08-03T07:15:57-07:00
---


Hi Dmitry,

Being able to represent any Erlang term is a good start.

Which leads me to Riak's conflict resolution. Does this part of Riak
understand the data types or does it just present the N alternative
values for a key to the client when there is a conflict?

There is potential for some semi-automated merging to be done
server-side in the case where values have richer semantics. I suspect
that it would depend on the application, and the client would need to
tell Riak it's OK to perform an automatic merge on write.

On 3 August 2010 23:59, Dmitry Demeshchuk  wrote:
&gt; Hi, James.
&gt;
&gt; Actually, Riak can store all Erlang terms: lists, tuples, numbers,
&gt; binaries, etc.
&gt;
&gt; But if you use, for example, PHP or Python, you can just use your own
&gt; serialization format. So there are no problems here for any other
&gt; languages as well.
&gt;
&gt; On Tue, Aug 3, 2010 at 5:47 PM, James Sadler  wrote:
&gt;&gt; Hi guys,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Is there any plan for supporting more than opaque blobs as values in
&gt;&gt; the future?  For example, lists, sets, hashes etc, including
&gt;&gt; server-side support for operating on those data-types?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; In the meantime, I am curious about the feasibility of putting
&gt;&gt; riak\_core in front of Redis, and supporting a richer API in the layers
&gt;&gt; above (which I suspect would need to be heavily modified to support
&gt;&gt; additional value manipulation functionality).
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Also, is anyone aware of anyone attempting such a project?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Cheers,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; James
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Best regards,
&gt; Dmitry Demeshchuk
&gt;



-- 
James

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

