---
title: "Re: 2i for single-result lookup"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-11-07T18:20:00-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05465"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg05464"
author_name: "Nate Lawson"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-11-07T18:20:00-08:00
---


Ok, then 2I will work fine for what you're doing if you're going to keep adding 
fields like that. You can just use the binary type for the 2I keys (\_bin).

http://basho.com/blog/technical/2011/09/14/Secondary-Indexes-in-Riak/

You first said you were concerned about the query performance due to the 
covering set access and that you only had 2 unique fields. That's why I 
suggested you create a manual index (either email or userid) to lookup the 
other key. But with this additional info you mention, I think you should just 
use 2I since that's one of its main purposes.

-Nate

On Nov 7, 2011, at 6:11 PM, Greg Pascale wrote:

&gt; Hi Nate,
&gt; 
&gt; There are only 2 secondary keys for now (in addition to the primary key), but 
&gt; this number will grow to 5 or more pretty soon.
&gt; 
&gt; I think when you say "insert each separately", you mean create 2 duplicate 
&gt; objects, one keyed by username and one keyed by email. Or do you mean create 
&gt; one object keyed by username, and then another object containing the username 
&gt; and keyed by email (a manual index if you will)? Code complexity is the main 
&gt; reason I'd like to avoid a solution like this. Suddenly a user create 
&gt; operation requires n writes to be considered a success. If one fails, I need 
&gt; to delete the others, etc… It quickly becomes a pain.
&gt; 
&gt; I don't know what you mean by "some relationship between the keys"
&gt; 
&gt; -- 
&gt; Greg
&gt; Clipboard
&gt; 
&gt; On Monday, November 7, 2011 at 5:59 PM, Nate Lawson wrote:
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On Nov 7, 2011, at 5:45 PM, Greg Pascale wrote:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Hi,
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; I'm thinking about using 2i for a certain piece of my system, but I'm 
&gt;&gt;&gt; worried that the document-based partitioning may make it suboptimal.
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; The issue is that the secondary fields I want to query over (email and 
&gt;&gt;&gt; username) are unique, so each will only ever map to one value. Since 2i 
&gt;&gt;&gt; queries a coverage set, but I'm only ever looking for one result, it's 
&gt;&gt;&gt; going to be hitting n-1 machines needlessly.
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; So, what I'm looking to understand is how much overhead a single-result 2i 
&gt;&gt;&gt; lookup like this will incur vs. a primary-key lookup, or even vs. search. 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Search doesn't intuitively feel like the right tool here, but I wonder if 
&gt;&gt;&gt; it may actually be preferable since it uses term-based partitioning.
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; If it's only 2 keys, why not insert each separately? You will double your 
&gt;&gt; total number of keys in the db. But both search and 2I are creating extra 
&gt;&gt; keys anyway in their private indices, so it has the same or worse effect on 
&gt;&gt; total storage as doubling your primary keys. And query efficiency is worse, 
&gt;&gt; as you point out.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 2I and search are more useful where there's some relationship between the 
&gt;&gt; keys, not when they're fully independent as you point out.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; -Nate
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

