---
title: "Re: CorrugatedIron v0.1.3 Released"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-09-30T10:45:52-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04943"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04942"
author_name: "Jeremiah Peschka"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-09-30T10:45:52-07:00
---


Thanks. I can't take all the credit/blame - OJ Reeves has written massive 
amounts of code, too.

We're aware that many people like to complain about our use of config files. 
When you write a piece of software, you make the choice between shipping 
software or adding more features. We chose to ship CorrugatedIron and see then 
what people liked and what they didn't like.

People didn't like our use of .NET's crusty old config system that they even 
created a github issue about it: 
https://github.com/DistributedNonsense/CorrugatedIron/issues/4

We hear you and will be moving to get this out as soon as we can after we get 
the Riak 1.0 feature compatibility ironed out.

Is our use of .NET configuration files blocking adoption of CorrugatedIron in 
your organization?
---
Jeremiah Peschka - Founder, Brent Ozar PLF, LLC
Microsoft SQL Server MVP

On Sep 30, 2011, at 1:40 PM, Kyle Quest wrote:

&gt; Jeremiah, really nice job on CorrugatedIron! Some of it is a bit too
&gt; over-engineered and more complicated than it has to be. For example,
&gt; you can't just create a RiakClient object and interact with Riak (like
&gt; you can do with the official Riak client libraries)... To create a
&gt; RiakClient (in CorrugatedIron) you need to have a RiakCluster object
&gt; to pass to the RiakClient object constructor. And you can't easily
&gt; create a RiakCluster object either. You can only create it from a
&gt; config section (there's no way to explicitly provide the config values
&gt; directly in the API). Not every app uses .NET app config files and
&gt; it's also not uncommon for the app config code to cause exceptions
&gt; because it can be brittle...
&gt; 
&gt; On Thu, Sep 22, 2011 at 3:33 PM, Jeremiah Peschka
&gt;  wrote:
&gt;&gt; I just finished up v0.1.3 of CorrugatedIron, everyone's favorite .NET 4.0 
&gt;&gt; Riak client. There is no new functionality in this release, just a fix from 
&gt;&gt; Matthew Whitfield: 
&gt;&gt; https://github.com/DistributedNonsense/CorrugatedIron/issues/18
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Thanks Matt for helping us make CorrugatedIron better!
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Binaries have been pushed to NuGet 
&gt;&gt; (http://nuget.org/List/Packages/CorrugatedIron) and source is available on 
&gt;&gt; github 
&gt;&gt; (https://github.com/DistributedNonsense/CorrugatedIron/commit/e9c0af10465176f117bbbf04724087063f9b7fd2)
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Enjoy!
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; ---
&gt;&gt; Jeremiah Peschka - Founder, Brent Ozar PLF, LLC
&gt;&gt; Microsoft SQL Server MVP
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; 


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

