---
title: "Re: Counting the number of items in a bucket"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-11-22T06:06:13-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05707"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg05706"
author_name: "Fyodor Yarochkin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-11-22T06:06:13-08:00
---


This depends on what riak version (1.x.x) and backend storage you're
using 2i indexes are supported by eleveldb ( bitcask is default), but
you can just specify inputs w/ key filters or just a bucket name,
i.e
"inputs": "yourbucket", or "inputs":{
 "bucket":"yourbucket",
 "key\_filters":[["ends\_with", "1234"]]
 }

etc(http://wiki.basho.com/Key-Filters.html)

On Tue, Nov 22, 2011 at 9:48 PM, Stephen Bennett  wrote:
&gt; Thanks for that. I've tried to run this across my cluster but it just
&gt; returns an error message. Do I need to include a key filter as well?
&gt;
&gt;   An error occurred parsing the "inputs" field.
&gt;   Key filter expression missing filter list.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On 22 November 2011 08:42, Fyodor Yarochkin  wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; You can try to limit input by particular subset of ranges, if that
&gt;&gt; helps. Here's my count m-r snippet:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; {
&gt;&gt;   "inputs":{
&gt;&gt;       "bucket":"data",
&gt;&gt;       "index":"numero\_int",
&gt;&gt;       "start":0,
&gt;&gt;       "end":1212
&gt;&gt;   },
&gt;&gt;   "query":[
&gt;&gt;    {"map":
&gt;&gt; {"language":"erlang","module":"riak\_kv\_mapreduce","function":"map\_object\_value","arg":"filter\_notfound"}
&gt;&gt;    },
&gt;&gt;       {"reduce": {"language":"erlang",
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; "module":"riak\_kv\_mapreduce","function":"reduce\_count\_inputs","arg":"filter\_notfound"}}
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;    ], "timeout": 9000
&gt;&gt; }
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; hope it helps,
&gt;&gt; -fyodor
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Tue, Nov 22, 2011 at 3:26 AM, Stephen Bennett 
&gt;&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt; &gt; I have a bucket which contains images refernced by a key which is made
&gt;&gt; &gt; up
&gt;&gt; &gt; from a guid. I have a number of servers in my cluster and my bucket is
&gt;&gt; &gt; set
&gt;&gt; &gt; up to store 3 versions of every item in the bucket across the servers in
&gt;&gt; &gt; the
&gt;&gt; &gt; cluster. I'd like to understand a little bit more about how my cluster
&gt;&gt; &gt; is
&gt;&gt; &gt; performing in terms of data storage. I can find out how much space each
&gt;&gt; &gt; bitcask is currently taking up on each server, but I'd like to compare
&gt;&gt; &gt; reference this against the number of unique keys that are being stored
&gt;&gt; &gt; in
&gt;&gt; &gt; the system.
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; I've tried to use map-reduce methods using the erlang methods defined in
&gt;&gt; &gt; the
&gt;&gt; &gt; riak\_kv\_mapreduce, calling them against the HTTP interface but my
&gt;&gt; &gt; queries
&gt;&gt; &gt; are timing out. I've tried to extend the timeout, but it's still timing
&gt;&gt; &gt; out.
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; What's the most efficient way to find out how many keys exist in a
&gt;&gt; &gt; particular bucket?
&gt;&gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;
&gt;

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

