---
title: "Re: Riak Cluster Crash down on heavy load Benchmarking"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-06-19T11:51:30-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07716"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg07696"
author_name: "Ryan Zezeski"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-06-19T11:51:30-07:00
---


Hi Amol, my response is inline.

On Sat, Jun 16, 2012 at 3:43 AM, Amol Rajoba  wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Clients were connected using protocol buffer api.
&gt; {pb\_backlog, 100000}, in app.config

Why are you setting the backlog so high? AFAIK that's 3 orders of
magnitude above the default. I don't pretend to know the details of
the linux TCP/IP stack but a backlog of that size does not come free.
&gt;From a quick google it appears the TCB structure can be anywhere from
280-1300 bytes [1]. Lets assume a middle ground of 790 bytes. Given
that and the 100K backlog we are looking at 790\*100000 = 79000000b or
~75MB. I'm not sure if there is other overhead for keeping that many
TCBs but it seems sketchy to me.


&gt;
&gt; Nodes: 2  (I know cluster of 5 is best but this is just test setup)
&gt; OS: Ubuntu 12.04 32bit
&gt; CPU: Core i3
&gt; RAM: 4GB
&gt; HDD: 500GB

In a real production cluster we recommend a minimum of 5 nodes. With
two nodes you'll have replicas overlapping which will increase IO
contention and reduce availability/safety in node down/crash
scenarios. Trying to infer how 5 nodes will run from 2 nodes is a
guessing game IMO.

&gt;
&gt; app.config [changes only]
&gt;
&gt; %% eLevelDB Config
&gt;  {eleveldb, [
&gt;              {data\_root, "/data/riak/leveldb"},
&gt;              {block\_size, 262144}, %%256k
&gt;              {cache\_size, 104857600}, %% 100MB - default cache size 8MB
&gt; per-partition
&gt;              {write\_buffer\_size, 524288000}, %% 500MB in bytes
&gt;                 {write\_buffer\_size\_min, 524288000}, %% 500MB in bytes
&gt;                 {write\_buffer\_size\_max, 524288000}, %% 500MB in bytes
&gt;                 {max\_open\_files, 100} %% Maximum number of files open at
&gt; once per partition- Default: 20 - Minimum: 20
&gt;             ]},
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; vm.args [changes only]
&gt; ## Enable kernel poll and a few async threads
&gt; +K true
&gt; +A 128

Do you realize those eleveldb configs apply for each instance (one per
vnode)? If you have two nodes that's 32 leveldb instances per node.
I would recommend trying the defaults first.

-Z

[1]: 
http://www.cisco.com/web/about/ac123/ac147/archived\_issues/ipj\_9-4/syn\_flooding\_attacks.html

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

