---
title: "Re: Error ehile running Map Reduce"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-01-05T21:52:15-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06149"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06148"
author_name: "Jeff Thompson"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-01-05T21:52:15-08:00
---


Hi,

While I don't have the specifics of what you were doing? (what commands did
you type in?) It looks to me like you were running make but Erlang was not
in your path. Please make sure that you have Erlang built and installed and
that it's binaries are in your shells path.

Best of luck,

Jeff

Jeff Thompson



On Thu, Jan 5, 2012 at 9:59 PM,  wrote:

&gt; Dear all,\*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt; \*\* \*\*
&gt;
&gt; I am using Cent Os and am very confused about installing erlang and
&gt; program in it. When I established riak cluster and tried to run map reduce
&gt; as instructed I am getting the following error.\*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt; \*\* \*\*
&gt;
&gt; “/usr/bin/env: escript: No such file or directory”\*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt; I downloaded the tar file R14B03 and un tar it. \*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt; Any insights are well appreciated\*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt; \*\* \*\*
&gt;
&gt; Regards\*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt; Sai Sagar. J\*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt; This e-mail and any files transmitted with it are for the sole use of the 
&gt; intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential and privileged 
&gt; information. If you are not the intended recipient(s), please reply to the 
&gt; sender and destroy all copies of the original message. Any unauthorized 
&gt; review, use, disclosure, dissemination, forwarding, printing or copying of 
&gt; this email, and/or any action taken in reliance on the contents of this 
&gt; e-mail is strictly prohibited and may be unlawful.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

