---
title: "Re: Java client API"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-03-23T15:09:22-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg02721"
author_name: "Russell Brown"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-03-23T15:09:22-07:00
---


Thanks for the reply and thoughts, mine below inline.

On 23 Mar 2011, at 20:21, Kresten Krab Thorup wrote:

&gt; From the client side, the moniker RiakObject is actually not too good. In 
&gt; technical terms, it is of cause a riak\_object - but to a Java programmer, it 
&gt; doesn't feel right for it to have that name. It's more like a 
&gt; KeyValueHolder, a RiakEntry (makes you think of Map.Entry), or something like 
&gt; that. I'll vote for calling it RiakEntry, or just plain Entry (we have name 
&gt; spaces in Java, you know...)

Agree, agree, agree. Originally I had Riak, Bucket and Entry, honest I did. I 
even considered implementing Map and Map.Entry for Bucket and RiakObject but 
that was a step too far. I don't know why I toned it down. That'll teach me to 
have some faith, eh? Nice to be validated, but I prefer RiakEntry, I know we 
have name spaces but you don't see that half way down a page of code so a 
little verbosity in naming helps readability.

&gt; It is hard to convey that it is important to get one of these "riak objects", 
&gt; update it, and stash it back in there. I.e. the fact that a RiakEntry has 
&gt; the "optimistic concurrency state" (in popular speek) needed to later do the 
&gt; update. 

I had a crack at implementing RiakEntry/Object today. Only the value, content 
type (which go hand in hand) and (Riak)Links were mutable, which fits with this 
quite well. 

&gt; One naturally just want to create a new one and put into the store; and that 
&gt; aspect should perhaps be hinted in the name of this core class, and in the 
&gt; flow of the API.
&gt; 
&gt; Perhaps, for this very reason, store() should be an operation \*directly on 
&gt; the RiakEntry\*; and then guide people by the way these are obtained.
&gt; 
&gt; I like the idea of modeling buckets explicitly, but then why not have store 
&gt; method on the RiakEntry?

The only thing that worries me here is the tendency towards an ORM and all the 
conceptual weight/horror with (eg. Hibernate's) sessions and detachment. It 
might be mixing metaphors. Is it not better to be upfront that an entry is a 
thing and a bucket is the thing you put it in?


&gt; Anyway, here is some sample code we can discuss from
&gt; 
&gt; Riak c = ...; // probably some ugly factory pattern to create a 
&gt; RiakClient here //

So far I have just been coding with constructors for the 2 adapters (HTTP/PBC) 
but when there is to an SPI for adding new clients then there will be a 
factory, sorry.

&gt; 
&gt; Bucket b = c.get("people");
&gt; 
&gt; // example 1
&gt; Entry e = b.get("russelb"); // does GET /riak/people/russeldb
&gt; e.set("application/json", "{ name: \"Russel Brown\" }" );
&gt; e.store();
&gt; 
&gt; Then, have a special method to create new entries:
&gt; 
&gt; // example 2
&gt; Entry e2 = b.create("krab"); // does not issue GET /riak/people/krab
&gt; b.set("Kresten Krab Thorup"); // implies text/plain;charset=utf-8
&gt; b.store();
&gt; 
&gt; The latter (example 2) would issue a "PUT" w/no vector clock; whereas the 
&gt; former (example 1) automatically grabs the vector clock from the GET. If you 
&gt; sure Bucket.get("no-such-key") then the only "harm done" is that you spent an 
&gt; extra round trip to the server trying to find the VC for no-such-key.

The idea of a separate get/create on the bucket is great and encodes all that 
complexity about vclocks without exposing it. Awesome. Leads nicely into the 
next set of problems too (conflict resolution.)

I think that idea alone solves a bunch of problems I was having with riak 
object creation. I hope that I can take this (and Jon's ideas (just read them, 
too)) and quickly push some code incorporating them.

I need to add an example of using this (unimplemented) API as part of the repo 
and I'll get on with that.

Thank you.

&gt; 
&gt; In fluent style, this would be
&gt; 
&gt; c.getBucket("people").get("krab").set("Kresten Crap Throwup").store();
&gt; 
&gt; // and/or
&gt; 
&gt; c.get("people", "krab").set("XXX").store();
&gt; 
&gt; Which captures the flow that the vector clock needs to be there for the store.
&gt; 
&gt; Likewise, this will make it much more sound to delete things, because you 
&gt; also need the entry (includin gth VC) to delete an object properly
&gt; 
&gt; bucket.get("krab").delete()
&gt; 
&gt; makes a lot more sense than
&gt; 
&gt; bucket.create("krab").delete()
&gt; 
&gt; WHICH IS GREAT! Because we want people to pass in VC to delete operations 
&gt; ... those should really also be replayable, which I am sure they will be one 
&gt; day :-)
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; Kresten
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Mar 23, 2011, at 11:05 , Russell Brown wrote:
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Hi,
&gt;&gt; I'm trying to make the Java client easier to use and less tied to underlying 
&gt;&gt; implementation so I've started designing a new API. 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; I've put some interfaces up at 
&gt;&gt; https://github.com/russelldb/riak-java-client-api
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; I'd really appreciate any comments you may have.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; My intention is to adapt the existing client(s) to these interfaces and 
&gt;&gt; deprecate the old client API gradually (so there will be backward 
&gt;&gt; compatibility for a few releases.) I'll also be reusing the existing client 
&gt;&gt; implementations underneath the API, this isn't a wholesale re-write. 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; I hope you can take some time to let me know what you think. I'll put my 
&gt;&gt; thickest skin on.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Many thanks
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Russell
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; PS It is all maven'd up so just clone and mvn eclipse:eclipse if you want to 
&gt;&gt; get a good look.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt; 

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

