---
title: "Re: NoSQL combinations - what works best?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-08-09T10:59:54-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04303"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04294"
author_name: "Jonathan Langevin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-08-09T10:59:54-07:00
---


That's my understanding as well. The memcache client determines what server
to store it's data on via the hashing process, so then if that server dies,
you lose that subset of data.

\*
Interesting read on Redis & clustering:

Smart clients will take persistent connections to many
nodes, will cache hashslot -&gt; node info, and will update the
table when they receive a -MOVED error.

http://redis.io/presentation/Redis\_Cluster.pdf


Jonathan Langevin
Systems Administrator
Loom Inc.
Wilmington, NC: (910) 241-0433 - jlange...@loomlearning.com -
www.loomlearning.com - Skype: intel352
\*


On Tue, Aug 9, 2011 at 1:48 PM, Alexander Sicular wrote:

&gt; Hmm. Not that I know of. Afaik, the memcache server itself is standalone.
&gt; Any distributed magic happens at the client level via some circular hashing
&gt; voodoo or sharding pixie dust. Keep the client mojo and swap memcached for
&gt; redis.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; @siculars on twitter
&gt; http://siculars.posterous.com
&gt;
&gt; Sent from my iPhone
&gt;
&gt; On Aug 9, 2011, at 13:23, Les Mikesell  wrote:
&gt;
&gt; On 8/9/2011 12:08 PM, Alexander Sicular wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Outside of legacy concerns I have no idea why someone would select
&gt;&gt;&gt; memcache over redis for a new application today. Redis gives you
&gt;&gt;&gt; everything memcache does plus a boat load of
&gt;&gt;&gt; omg-wtf-where-has-this-been-\*\*all-my-life capabilities.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; The main point of memcache is that it is distributed and the clients
&gt;&gt; automatically handle failover at any reasonably large scale. How do you
&gt;&gt; arrange that with redis?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; Les Mikesell
&gt;&gt; lesmikes...@gmail.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\*\*\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/\*\*mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_\*\*lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\*\*\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/\*\*mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_\*\*lists.basho.com
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

