---
title: "Re: Node riak@192.168.56.101 is not reachable!"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-04-04T22:46:45-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07145"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg07144"
author_name: "Antonio Ye"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-04-04T22:46:45-07:00
---


Thanks for the reply. It turns out I had the firewall turned on. After I
disabled it following these instructions, I was able to join the two nodes.

http://www.cyberciti.biz/faq/disable-linux-firewall-under-centos-rhel-fedora/

Thanks,
Tony

On Wed, Apr 4, 2012 at 10:20 PM, Daniel Reverri  wrote:

&gt; Hi Antonio,
&gt;
&gt; Can you check the output of `riak-admin status` on both machines?
&gt; Specifically, what are the values of `nodename` and `ring\_members`?
&gt;
&gt; Also, can you share the vm.args files from both machines?
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; Dan
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Daniel Reverri
&gt; Developer Advocate
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; d...@basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Wednesday, April 4, 2012 at 8:20 PM, Antonio Ye wrote:
&gt;
&gt; &gt; I have been struggling with this problem for the last the days. I have
&gt; setup two VMs using VirtualBox running centos and installed riak 1.1.1-1
&gt; rpm. I have changed the 127.0.0.1 to the actual IP in the app.config and
&gt; have changed the name in the vm.args on each of the VMs. I can ping,
&gt; telnet, ssh from one machine to the other but no matter what I do I keep
&gt; getting the not reachable error when I type 'riak-admin join
&gt; riak@192.168.56.101 (mailto:riak@192.168.56.101)'. I have read and tried
&gt; everything described in a thread talking about this problem in a EC2
&gt; cluster but nothing I do seems to work. Anyone have any ideas?
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Thanks!
&gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

