---
title: "Re: trying to list keys in a bucket"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-01-05T14:19:10-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01895"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg01894"
author_name: "Sean Cribbs"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-01-05T14:19:10-08:00
---


Try using ?keys=stream which will return a bunch of JSON objects with key-lists 
of varying lengths.

Sean Cribbs 
Developer Advocate
Basho Technologies, Inc.
http://basho.com/

On Jan 5, 2011, at 4:15 PM, Jon Brisbin wrote:

&gt; I'm working on a Java classloader that pulls class files from Riak instead of 
&gt; a JAR file. Right now, I'm working on the utility that loads the contents of 
&gt; a local JAR file into Riak. This works fine, but I thought I'd cross my 
&gt; fingers and see if I could list the keys in that bucket to get a list of the 
&gt; class files I just loaded. I got the following error:
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; GET /riak/jt400.jar?keys=true HTTP/1.1
&gt;&gt; User-Agent: curl/7.19.7 (universal-apple-darwin10.0) libcurl/7.19.7 
&gt;&gt; OpenSSL/0.9.8l zlib/1.2.3
&gt;&gt; Host: localhost:8098
&gt;&gt; Accept: \*/\*
&gt;&gt; 
&gt; &lt; HTTP/1.1 200 OK
&gt; &lt; Vary: Accept-Encoding
&gt; &lt; Server: MochiWeb/1.1 WebMachine/1.7.2 (participate in the frantic)
&gt; \* Avoided giant realloc for header (max is 102400)!
&gt; \* Closing connection #0
&gt; curl: (27) Avoided giant realloc for header (max is 102400)!
&gt; 
&gt; Which I assume is because I have a lot of entries in this bucket.
&gt; 
&gt; Should I just not try to list the keys in this bucket and settle for checking 
&gt; for 404s?
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks!
&gt; 
&gt; Jon Brisbin
&gt; Portal Webmaster
&gt; NPC International, Inc.
&gt; 
&gt; Twitter: @j\_brisbin
&gt; Skype: jon.brisbin
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

