---
title: "Re: Data loads"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-08-30T08:31:21-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08408"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg08407"
author_name: "Reid Draper"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-08-30T08:31:21-07:00
---


Welcome to the list Pinney :)

On Aug 30, 2012, at 10:59 AM, Pinney Colton  
wrote:

&gt; Hi all -
&gt; 
&gt; This is my first post to the list. I'm a relative Riak newbie, though I have 
&gt; some experience working with multi-terabyte datasets on other platforms. 
&gt; Last night, I kicked off my first "large" load of data as a test of the 
&gt; platform with about 1,000,000 json objects being loaded into a bucket. I had 
&gt; a couple performance issues, so I'm wondering if someone on the list could be 
&gt; kind enough to answer a few questions that will help me troubleshoot.
&gt; 
&gt; a) I haven't analyzed all of my load log data yet, but it look like writes 
&gt; went from about 0.02 seconds per object to a couple minutes per object! This 
&gt; is the typical "dev" setup from the tutorials, and I forgot to divide 
&gt; available RAM by 4 to arrive at a number per node - is this likely the result 
&gt; of a memory constraint, or should I be looking elsewhere, beyond just bumping 
&gt; the memory on my VM? I looked at the logs, but I'm not sure what I should be 
&gt; looking for.

I'm wondering if you're starting to swap. Have you set swappiness to 0 on the 
machine? If not, I'd recommend that change.

&gt; 
&gt; b) I am using protocol buffers, and I saw similar initial performance when 
&gt; running the load from a separate machine vs. having the data on the riak 
&gt; machine itself. Is that what you would recommend? I'm wondering if there is 
&gt; any hard/fast rule re: CPU/Memory contention on the machine vs. network 
&gt; performance of loading from a different machine.

I don't think there is a hard and fast rule here, but I would try doing it over 
the network rather than on the same node.

&gt; 
&gt; c) I'm using a sha256 hash as my bucket name. I read that buckets and keys 
&gt; are concatenated internally and that all objects have just one "bucketkey". 
&gt; Am I putting significantly more pressure on memory by using such a long 
&gt; bucket name? Or is Riak managing that for me via some sort of compression? 
&gt; If that long hash is being replicated for each of those million objects, I 
&gt; can see where my memory estimates would have been low. I can always use an 
&gt; integer ID for my bucket name, the hash just existed elsewhere in my 
&gt; application, so I used it without thinking about it too much.

This depends on the backend you use. Bitcask holds all bucket/keys in memory, 
so their size is important. Leveldb doesn't have this constraint,
and even has key prefix compression.

&gt; 
&gt; Thanks in advance for your help! Loving Riak so far, in spite of these 
&gt; trivial hurdles.
&gt; 
&gt; Regards,
&gt; Pinney
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

