---
title: "Re: Hints for using links"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-10-02T01:36:15-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04975"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04968"
author_name: "Anton Podviaznikov"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-10-02T01:36:15-07:00
---


Thank you for the answers! They are really helpful!

Best regards,
Anton Podviaznikov

On 1 October 2011 13:56, Jeremiah Peschka wrote:

&gt; You can search the archives with a very gmail style interface over at
&gt; http://markmail.org. Use the search filter list:com.basho.lists.riak-users
&gt;
&gt; Object versioning can be done in as many ways as you'd like ;) It's going
&gt; to be a matter of working within your data model and defining how you'd like
&gt; it to work. Since you probably don't want to use object sibling (trust me,
&gt; you don't), you can play tricks with keys and use a meaningful key plus the
&gt; timestamp, or a version number, much like is done with software.
&gt;
&gt; Another option would be to keep a separate version bucket and store
&gt; versioned objects in there. This would involve two saves on your part (one
&gt; for the original object being pushed into the version bucket and one for the
&gt; new version) but I can't see an easier way.
&gt;
&gt; Finally, there's no easy way that I know of to retrieve all links in a
&gt; hierarchy. Just like you can't tell a relational database "I have this row,
&gt; give me every row that's related to this row in some way" (the hell of
&gt; recursive CTEs not considered), Riak has no such functionality. You can,
&gt; however, write a looping query to perform this search for you.
&gt;
&gt; Instead you could use the new secondary indexes feature and index your
&gt; versions with a single value for easy identification. All versions of a
&gt; document have an index on a canonical name for the document - this could be
&gt; an ISBN, URL, internal identifier. Then querying for older versions becomes
&gt; a matter of performing a secondary index query and finding the right objects
&gt; rather than walking a link hierarchy that could end up being cyclical if you
&gt; aren't careful.
&gt;
&gt; ---
&gt; Jeremiah Peschka - Founder, Brent Ozar PLF, LLC
&gt; Microsoft SQL Server MVP
&gt;
&gt; On Oct 1, 2011, at 7:44 AM, Anton Podviaznikov wrote:
&gt;
&gt; &gt; Hi,
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; I just starting to use Riak and have following situation:
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; I want to store some JSON documents inside Riak. After updating document
&gt; I want to save new copy in the same bucket with the link to the "parent"
&gt; revision.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Then my task is to retrieve all revisions for the specified document.
&gt; &gt; However I didn't find any examples how to do this if I don't know the
&gt; depth of the tree (amount of revisions), there are just examples hot to
&gt; achieve first linked document or second. Do you have any hints?
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; One more question: are there any patterns for storing versioned objects
&gt; inside Riak? Any previous discussion on this list?
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; P.S. Since probably these question was asked previously can you suggest a
&gt; way how to make search over this mailing list? I see archive (
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/pipermail/riak-users\_lists.basho.com/) but don't
&gt; know how to search it.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Thank you in advance!
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Best regards,
&gt; &gt; Anton Podviaznikov
&gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;


-- 
Best regards,

Anton Podviaznikov
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

