---
title: "Re: Announcing Riak Pipe (BETA)"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-06-14T08:46:53-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03691"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg03690"
author_name: "Sean Cribbs"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-06-14T08:46:53-07:00
---


It will not negate that need necessarily (Hadoop is a large ecosystem), but it 
could be an alternative for run-of-the-mill batch mapred jobs. There's still a 
long way to go for that to be possible, but we encourage you to push its limits 
and find the pain points.

Sean Cribbs 
Developer Advocate
Basho Technologies, Inc.
http://basho.com/

On Jun 14, 2011, at 11:41 AM, Jonathan Langevin wrote:

&gt; So to be clear, will Riak Pipe negate the need for someone to use Hadoop in 
&gt; front of Riak KV?
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; Jonathan Langevin
&gt; Systems Administrator
&gt; Loom Inc.
&gt; Wilmington, NC: (910) 241-0433 - jlange...@loomlearning.com - 
&gt; www.loomlearning.com - Skype: intel352
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Mon, Jun 13, 2011 at 9:44 PM, Sean Cribbs  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; On Jun 13, 2011, at 9:40 PM, Antonio Rohman Fernandez wrote:
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Can a same job be performed by several servers distributed as a
&gt; &gt; cluster? or only 1 Pipe server will do the job and Riak KV will be the
&gt; &gt; distributed cluster?... the good thing of Hadoop is that you can have a
&gt; &gt; Hadoop cluster and a Riak cluster and both clusters would work
&gt; &gt; distributed to perform jobs ( Hadoop ) and to deliver data ( Riak KV
&gt; &gt; )... i wonder how Riak Pipe will work, i hope that it would be like
&gt; &gt; Hadoop and the computation of a job can be distributed.
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; Riak Pipe builds on the abstractions already available in riak\_core for 
&gt; distribution, namely vnodes and consistent hashing. The existing MapReduce in 
&gt; Riak KV also uses these abstractions, but Pipe is a lot smarter about how it 
&gt; coordinates and monitors data processing.
&gt; 
&gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt; Developer Advocate
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; http://basho.com/
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

