---
title: "Re: LevelDB driver"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-07-12T08:25:17-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03991"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg03924"
author_name: "Phil Stanhope"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-07-12T08:25:17-07:00
---


Can you share some LevelDB config examples?

I've built latest from github and know that I've got the elevedb
driver/wrapper.

make devrel is producing a {storage\_backend, riak\_kv\_bitcask\_backend} ... is
it as simple as changing this to riak\_kv\_eleveldb\_backend?

Perhaps I missed it ... but did you guys also share the sample data that you
used for the benchmark and instructions about how to attempt recreation of
it?

For example, the blog post mentioned "commodity" server. But I don't recall
whether a mention was made of a stock 3 or 4 node localhost cluster, where
all nodes hit by the benchmark, etc.

This would be excellent information to make available to the community.

-phil

On Tue, Jul 12, 2011 at 11:16 AM, David Smith  wrote:

&gt; On Mon, Jul 11, 2011 at 4:24 PM, Will Moss  wrote:
&gt;
&gt; &gt; I know you guys are busy working on various new features, is this going
&gt; to
&gt; &gt; make it into the next production release? Is there a date for that? Is
&gt; there
&gt; &gt; somewhere to look at your road map so I don't have to spam the list?
&gt;
&gt; Hi Will,
&gt;
&gt; Yes, the current plan is to have LevelDB a default part of the next
&gt; production release.
&gt;
&gt; We're still hashing out the timing of the next release, but it will
&gt; \_probably\_ be sometime in the next 3 months (or so...).
&gt;
&gt; D.
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Dave Smith
&gt; Director, Engineering
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; diz...@basho.com
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

