---
title: "Re: Riak in the cloud?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-01-18T09:38:57-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06308"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06301"
author_name: "Marc Campbell"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-01-18T09:38:57-08:00
---


We've recently moved to Riak on Joyent's cloud. They are offering a 
pre-configured Riak appliance, which let us start out with 3 small nodes. 
Performance has not been an issue here.

-Marc


On Jan 17, 2012, at 4:19 PM, Wilson MacGyver wrote:

&gt; We are using it on amazon with no issues. we are using 7.5gb instances. You 
&gt; can reduce the cost by doing reserve instances.
&gt; 
&gt; We are still using bitcask, which makes amount of ram per instance very 
&gt; important due to each node need to keep all keys it's responsible for in the 
&gt; ram.
&gt; 
&gt; It's a trade off, is raw metal nice? Sure. However, ec2 gives you advantage 
&gt; compare to your own co-lo datacenter. 
&gt; 
&gt; On Jan 17, 2012, at 3:35 PM, Tom Davies  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Hey there,
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; I am considering Riak for a new project. One possible show stopper
&gt;&gt; for me is I believe Riak is not recommended for use on a VM which
&gt;&gt; would make cloud deployments (e.g. rackspace, ec2, etc) a no go. Also,
&gt;&gt; I read somewhere else the minimum EC2 deployment recommendation was 3
&gt;&gt; large instances which would run over $700 / month. Is it possible to
&gt;&gt; run Riak in the cloud and if so what is the minimum recommended
&gt;&gt; configuration? Also, I'd be interested in hearing any recommendations
&gt;&gt; for initial configuration in a cloud environment.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Thanks!
&gt;&gt; -- 
&gt;&gt; Tom Davies
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; http://teenormous.com
&gt;&gt; The Ultimate T-shirt Search Engine
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

