---
title: "Re: RiakSearch Benchmark Test Invitation."
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-10-28T09:02:18-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01393"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg01392"
author_name: "Rusty Klophaus"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-10-28T09:02:18-07:00
---


Hi folks,

Very happy to see the excitement around Riak Search. Just a quick note on
benchmarking approach. For best results, make sure to spread the indexing
load across multiple machines in the cluster, rather than firing all
requests on a single node. Otherwise, you will become CPU bound on that
node. Load balancing in a round-robin fashion is fine.

To make this easier, you may want to bypass the command line interface and
post to Solr directly. In curl, it looks like this:

curl -X POST -H text/xml --data-binary @\*datafile.xml\* http://\*hostname\*
:8098/solr/\*myindex\*/update 

(Change the name of the datafile, hostname, and index appropriately.)

Best,
Rusty

On Thu, Oct 28, 2010 at 6:46 AM, Prometheus WillSurvive &lt;
prometheus.willsurv...@gmail.com&gt; wrote:

&gt; Hi Guys,
&gt;
&gt; I just put the wikipedia riaksearch solr index ready XMLs to the:
&gt;
&gt; http://rapidshare.com/files/427591191/wikipedia350.tar.gz
&gt;
&gt; you can download from there.
&gt;
&gt; there is also a small keyword list for benchmark test.
&gt;
&gt; We can put bigger documents later ie 3 million wikipedia doc.
&gt;
&gt; Let us know your test results. I used Apache Jmeter to send 10 clients
&gt; queering to the clusters (3 machine)
&gt;
&gt; Best Regards
&gt;
&gt; PrometheusWillSurvive
&gt;
&gt; On Oct 28, 2010, at 12:28 PM, Neville Burnell wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Put it on S3
&gt;
&gt; On 28 October 2010 20:20, francisco treacy wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Very good idea!
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; 2010/10/28 Prometheus WillSurvive :
&gt;&gt; &gt; Hi All,
&gt;&gt; &gt; We have prepare wikipedia database output ready to submit RiakSearch. It
&gt;&gt; is
&gt;&gt; &gt; XML and described format for solr submit. Each file has 20.000 Document
&gt;&gt; and
&gt;&gt; &gt; totaly 15 xml files. Each file around 44 MB.
&gt;&gt; &gt; You can submit all XML 's = bin/search-cmd solr wikipedia
&gt;&gt; &gt; /wikipedia/content-xml-out/wikipedia\_1.xml
&gt;&gt; &gt; So you only need to submit this files to the riaksearch and than make a
&gt;&gt; &gt; benchmark test/tune and share your experience.
&gt;&gt; &gt; I would like to ask Riak Admin guys is there any place that I can share
&gt;&gt; &gt; these files for public access to start collaborative tests ?
&gt;&gt; &gt; Second phase I can put 3 million wikipedia XML sets to ready to submit
&gt;&gt; &gt; riaksearch. So All we have some common benchmark and tuning parameters.
&gt;&gt; &gt; I hope this will help the riaksearch community to better understanding
&gt;&gt; its
&gt;&gt; &gt; capability.
&gt;&gt; &gt; Best Regards
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

