---
title: "Re: devrel remote ip help"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-06-12T16:31:14-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07674"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg07671"
author_name: "Marv Lush"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-06-12T16:31:14-07:00
---


Austin,

Shouldn't need to reip since I modified the configs before starting nodes for 
the first time.

However...you bring up a point I totally forgot..the security group config. 
Duh...that's probably it. Feel like an idiot for not remembering that.

thanks,
/m

--- On Tue, 6/12/12, Swinney, Austin  wrote:

&gt; From: Swinney, Austin 
&gt; Subject: Re: devrel remote ip help
&gt; To: "Marv Lush" 
&gt; Cc: "" 
&gt; Date: Tuesday, June 12, 2012, 1:00 PM
&gt; Hi Marv,
&gt; 
&gt; I don't recall having your problem specifically, but if it
&gt; happened to me, I would ask myself:
&gt; 
&gt; \* did you reip your node using `riak-admin reip`?
&gt; 
&gt; \* on ec2, is your security group configured to allow inbound
&gt; and outbound traffic within the security group?
&gt; 
&gt; Also, by 'hangs' I guess you mean you never got to the wait
&gt; complete message in /var/log/riak/console.log :
&gt; 
&gt; 2012-06-12 15:58:58.199 [info]
&gt; &lt;0.18466.349&gt;@riak\_core:wait\_for\_service:416 Waiting
&gt; for service riak\_kv to start (0 seconds)
&gt; 2012-06-12 15:58:58.296 [info]
&gt; &lt;0.18460.349&gt;@riak\_core:wait\_for\_application:390 Wait
&gt; complete for application riak\_kv (0 seconds)
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Jun 12, 2012, at 3:09 PM, Marv Lush wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; &gt; Tried setting up a riak 4 node dev cluster on an EC2
&gt; box today per the instructions.
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; Seems to work fine for any requests to 127.0.0.1
&gt; However, when I try to remote in (from my desktop to the EC2
&gt; box)...I get no response.
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; I assume this is because I need to configure app.config
&gt; and vm.args with something like:
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; {http, [ {"",  } ]},
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; -name devN@
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; respectively....instead of 127.0.0.1. However, when I
&gt; made modifications to the required files...by using my EC2
&gt; box's elastic IP, and I try to start...it just sits there
&gt; and hangs...
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; Is there some secret sauce needed to get the dev
&gt; environment working with remote IP's?
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; thanks.
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; /m
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; 

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

