---
title: "Fwd: Riak Backlinks? Simple linkwalk?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-04-12T11:22:53-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00006"
author_name: "Sean Cribbs"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-04-12T11:22:53-07:00
---


Begin forwarded message:

&gt; From: Sean Cribbs 
&gt; Date: April 12, 2010 2:21:54 PM EDT
&gt; To: Tomáš Mudruňka 
&gt; Subject: Re: Riak Backlinks? Simple linkwalk?
&gt; 
&gt; On Apr 12, 2010, at 12:48 PM, Tomáš Mudruňka wrote:
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Hello,
&gt;&gt; i have 2 small questions...
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 1.)
&gt;&gt; i am using Riak with PHP to store graph db, but i can't find anywhere if i
&gt;&gt; am able to get list of backlinks, which is crucial for me.
&gt;&gt; is there some way to get array of keys with links to my desired key? If
&gt;&gt; it's possible, how can i do this?
&gt;&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; Links are uni-directional, from source to target. If you need backlinks, 
&gt; you'll need to add them to the target back to the sources. Alternatively, 
&gt; you could do a potentially expensive map-reduce job to collect them, but in 
&gt; general it's easier to add the backlink when you store the forward link.
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 2.)
&gt;&gt; is there some way to do such simple linkwalk request in PHP?
&gt;&gt; curl http://localhost:8098/riak/kybca-mini/root/\_,\_,\_; echo
&gt;&gt; i just want to get array containing data of all nodes to which i am
&gt;&gt; linking from desired node in single request.
&gt; 
&gt; The PHP client library supports link-walking through map-reduce rather than 
&gt; the shortcut URLs. If you have the object already, do something like this:
&gt; 
&gt; $results = $obj-&gt;link()-&gt;map("Riak.mapValuesJson", array("keep" =&gt; 
&gt; true)).run();
&gt; 
&gt; Hope that helps!
&gt; 
&gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt; Developer Advocate
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; http://basho.com/
&gt; 

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

