---
title: "Re: Java client dw pr pw settings"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-02-19T09:30:13-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06644"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06643"
author_name: "Brian Roach"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-02-19T09:30:13-08:00
---


Daniel -

The client doesn't support modifying / creating those properties for
buckets themselves in Riak. This is a server-side limitation as Riak itself
doesn't support these operations via protocol buffers.

With Object reads / writes, however, there is no issue.

The DomainBucket object is a convenience object for when you want the same
settings for all reads / writes. You can specify them in the Builder:

DomainBucket domainBucket =
 DomainBucket.builder(myBucket,
ShoppingCart.class).r(1).pr(1).w(1).build();

All calls to fetch() and store() will use those settings.

In your case, if you want only some fetch / store operations to use
alternate settings you have a couple options.

1) Create a second DomainBucket object with those alternate settings. You
can then use that DomainBucket object only for operations you want those
settings to apply to.

2) Don't use the DomainBucket wrapper and instead use the regular Bucket
interface. You can set those properties int the StoreObject and
FetchObject.

Thanks,
Brian Roach

On Sun, Feb 19, 2012 at 9:25 AM, ivenhov  wrote:

&gt; Hi
&gt;
&gt; I just found that Java PB client does not support setting pr pw dw etc for
&gt; writes and reads.
&gt; Is it because I'm using IRiakClient interface and domain buckets or is it
&gt; not supported at all?
&gt; I would like to be able to set those properties for certain operations and
&gt; keep defaults or others and I don't mind using another client interface if
&gt; that functionality is supported.
&gt;
&gt; When we can expect it to be implemented for domain buckets?
&gt;
&gt; Thanks
&gt; Daniel
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; View this message in context:
&gt; http://riak-users.197444.n3.nabble.com/Java-client-dw-pr-pw-settings-tp3758310p3758310.html
&gt; Sent from the Riak Users mailing list archive at Nabble.com.
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

