---
title: "Re: Riak Search"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-10-11T18:14:59-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01257"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg01255"
author_name: "Daniel Reverri"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-10-11T18:14:59-07:00
---


It looks like the query analyzer will attempt to load the JVM on startup 
regardless of whether or not it is needed. I believe Riak Search will fail to 
start if it cannot start the JVM. A failed start in that scenario seems like 
the least surprising behavior considering without a JVM none of the default 
behavior would work. Perhaps an option to explicitly turn off loading the JVM 
would make a good feature request?

Thanks
Dan


Sent from my iPhone

On Oct 11, 2010, at 5:10 PM, Neville Burnell  wrote:

&gt; Hi Dan,
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks for your reply,
&gt; 
&gt; Does this mean that if I use the pure erlang analyser, I will have get pure 
&gt; erlang search, ie, not need a JVM ?
&gt; 
&gt; Kind Regards
&gt; 
&gt; Neville
&gt; 
&gt; On 12 October 2010 10:49, Dan Reverri  wrote:
&gt; Hi Neville,
&gt; 
&gt; Riak Search uses the JVM to run analyzers. Analyzers are configured using the 
&gt; analyzer\_factory option in the schema (set schema wide or per field). 
&gt; Analyzers determine how incoming data is broken down and indexed, for example 
&gt; a white space analyzer would break a document into words by splitting on 
&gt; white space characters and indexing the words.
&gt; 
&gt; Regarding the schema, this section of the wiki should answer your question:
&gt; http://wiki.basho.com/display/RIAK/Riak+Search+-+Schema#RiakSearch-Schema-DefiningaSchema
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; Dan
&gt; 
&gt; Daniel Reverri
&gt; Developer Advocate
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; d...@basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Mon, Oct 11, 2010 at 3:40 PM, Neville Burnell  
&gt; wrote:
&gt; Great work to release Riak 0.13 and Riak Search.
&gt; 
&gt; I'm curious to understand how much of Riak Search is pure Erlang, and when 
&gt; does Riak Search use the JVM?
&gt; 
&gt; Also are the Riak Search Indexes and config/schema files all stored in 
&gt; Bitcask, or does Riak Search use the local node file system for storage at 
&gt; all?
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks and congratulations 
&gt; 
&gt; Neville
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

