---
title: "Re: multi-get (yet again)"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-08-09T04:55:03-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08237"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg08234"
author_name: "Eric Moritz"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-08-09T04:55:03-07:00
---


I toyed with a pmap in Python a while back to attempt to speed up multiple
HTTP request to our web services layer at work. You may want to attempt
that with gevent.

Here's the code I wrote which is probably not production ready.
https://github.com/ericmoritz/pmap
 On Aug 9, 2012 4:46 AM, "Parnell Springmeyer"  wrote:

&gt; Jeremy,
&gt;
&gt; I was looking for something similar and first built an extra handler onto
&gt; an internal erlang cowboy API server that used maelstrom (my own worker
&gt; pool OTP application).
&gt;
&gt; It was used to make a simple POST with a string of the {bucket, key} pairs
&gt; and the server would concurrently GET and combine the results and send it
&gt; back. This was very fast (thousands of keys GET in ms).
&gt;
&gt; Since that seemed gross, I then decided (based on some input from someone
&gt; else on the list) to try using a simple Map/Reduce phase that did not use
&gt; javascript but the erlang functions (since those are going to be really
&gt; fast and take advantage Erlang's concurrency better than the javascript
&gt; VM's).
&gt;
&gt; In python, you can do this to run that type of M/R phase without knowing
&gt; any Erlang code:
&gt;
&gt; client = riak.RiakClient()
&gt;
&gt; # Add your KNOWN bucket and key pairs (you can do this in a loop)
&gt; query = client.add(bucket, key)
&gt; query.add(bucket, key)
&gt; query.add(bucket, key)
&gt; etc… (as many as you like)
&gt;
&gt; # Now tell the map and reduce phases to use Erlang module
&gt; "riak\_kv\_mapreduce" and its given function
&gt; # "map\_object\_value" and "reduce\_set\_union".
&gt; results = client.map(["riak\_kv\_mapreduce", "map\_object\_value"]) \
&gt; .reduce(["riak\_kv\_mapreduce", "reduce\_set\_union"]) \
&gt; .run()
&gt;
&gt; The above returns results faster for me, than the brokered multi-get
&gt; approach I used (I guarantee my brokered multi-get is faster than anything
&gt; you can do with python + gevent, if that's the case, the M/R phase is
&gt; definitely the route you want to go).
&gt;
&gt; So IMHO, it is very fast as long as you know the buckets and keys you want
&gt; to get.
&gt;
&gt; On Aug 9, 2012, at 12:11 AM, Jeremy Dunck wrote:
&gt;
&gt; &gt; I'm new to riak and need multi-get (that is, getting the value and/or
&gt; &gt; existence of keys in a single network-trip latency).
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; I was wondering what the latency of the map-reduce approach is?
&gt; &gt;
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/pipermail/riak-users\_lists.basho.com/2011-February/003229.html
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Alternatively, has anyone tried scaling concurrent gets (perhaps with
&gt; &gt; evented io) to do many concurrent requests and combining results on
&gt; &gt; the client?
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; I am toying with a python+gevent multiget function. If the stance is
&gt; &gt; still that a multiget operation doesn't belong in core, I'm a little
&gt; &gt; surprised that there doesn't seem to at least be a nice client-lib API
&gt; &gt; func to do it. It sure seems useful...
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; In my use-case, the immediate need is to know whether a db insert
&gt; &gt; needs to be done. We're handling too many keys to want to store in
&gt; &gt; memory (so no redis, etc), and we don't want to go to the db more than
&gt; &gt; we need to, so it seems riak would be good here. But we're getting
&gt; &gt; 1000s of potential insert keys and want to whittle down all those to a
&gt; &gt; relative few db inserts.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; So I was thinking riak key-per-id, and insert to the db iff the riak
&gt; &gt; key doesn't exist, then add the riak key. We'll get some race
&gt; &gt; conditions on the insert, but that's OK in our case.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; We do need low latency on the riak check, though, hence either
&gt; &gt; multiplexing w/ eventing or map-reduce (if that latency is actually
&gt; &gt; good).
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Am I doing it wrong?
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

