---
title: "Re: Bucket and Post commit hook"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-08-15T22:29:47-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00891"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg00890"
author_name: "Senthilkumar Peelikkampatti"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-08-15T22:29:47-07:00
---


May be I try to rephrase my question Since bucket are not specifically
declared and as and when it will be created base on put(B,K,V ...), so B can
be anything and it become available. I need to created post commit for some
buckets but not for all and those are not know beforehand. Since it is not
declared and its virtual and so how to create post commits for this
scenario? one way is app.config and I am trying to see what is the best way
to do.

On Mon, Aug 16, 2010 at 12:22 AM, Senthilkumar Peelikkampatti &lt;
senthilkumar.peelikkampa...@gmail.com&gt; wrote:

&gt; Alexander,
&gt; Thanks and I am aware of that. But when bucket get dynamically created
&gt; and you don't know when because as and when you add document it will be
&gt; brought into life, but at what point you would create properties for those
&gt; buckets especially post\_commit\_hook? for me I need it from first doc. I
&gt; found one way to do is using app.config but if Riak informs when first
&gt; document bucket is brought into life I can also set post\_commit hook for
&gt; that particular bucket. whatever set in app.config is global and not
&gt; specific to specific buckets but this is the story. I need post commit to
&gt; be live for from first document to do something else.
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; Senthil
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Sun, Aug 15, 2010 at 9:24 PM, Senthilkumar Peelikkampatti &lt;
&gt; senthilkumar.peelikkampa...@gmail.com&gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; I am having a situation where buckets gets created dynamically and I want
&gt;&gt; to attach post commit hook to it. Since it is part of bucket properties, how
&gt;&gt; to deal with when I set bucket properties? Since bucket is kind of virtual
&gt;&gt; and got deleted when no documents in it and created when first document is
&gt;&gt; put. Is there a way to find out when first time bucket is created? If I
&gt;&gt; know, I can attach once post hook properties. Or is that part of app.config
&gt;&gt; and can be set as part of config properties?
&gt;&gt; Please provide your thoughts.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; Regards,
&gt;&gt; Senthilkumar,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Regards,
&gt; Senthilkumar Peelikkampatti,
&gt; http://pmsenthilkumar.blogspot.com/
&gt;
&gt;


-- 
Regards,
Senthilkumar Peelikkampatti,
http://pmsenthilkumar.blogspot.com/
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

