---
title: "Re: Riak behind a Load Balancer"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-09-08T10:25:53-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08477"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg08411"
author_name: "gibraltar"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-09-08T10:25:53-07:00
---



I wonder what happens if one would run a Riak cluster on 5/10/15+ EC2 micro (or 
small) Linux machines behind Elastic Load Balance? Do you think it would 
perform well enough for a web site with moderate traffic. Idea is having many 
many "small" machines rather than couple of "big" machines. 

Anyone has any experience with something similar?

Thanks,
Gibraltar

On Aug 30, 2012, at 5:09 PM, Sean Carey  wrote:

&gt; Matt, 
&gt; Haproxy is my load balancer of choice. You can always run multiple copies of 
&gt; haproxy and use some type of dynamic dns with it. 
&gt; 
&gt; We do this in many cases. Haproxy scales well. I've seen a single node 
&gt; sustain multiple gigabits per second with almost no sweat.
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks. 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; Sean 
&gt; On Monday, June 25, 2012 at 7:36 AM, Matt Black wrote:
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Dear list,
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Does anyone have an opinion on the concept of putting a Riak cluster behind 
&gt;&gt; a load balancer?
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; We wish to be able to automatically add/remove nodes from the cluster, so 
&gt;&gt; adding an extra layer at the front is desirable. We should also benefit for 
&gt;&gt; incoming requests behind shared across all nodes.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Can anyone see any drawbacks / problems with doing this?
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Thanks
&gt;&gt; Matt
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

