---
title: "Re: Secondary index scalability"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-10-11T14:29:20-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05126"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg05112"
author_name: "Nate Lawson"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-10-11T14:29:20-07:00
---


A related question -- does the secondary index implementation make some attempt 
to cluster "nearby" integer keys for range queries? In other words, if I have 
an integer secondary index on a set of keys, is this taken into account in the 
partition function?

Since you have to query the full covering set anyway to get all the results, 
I'm not sure how much of an advantage this would be and the complexity 
tradeoff. I'm just wondering if reducing the covering set size based on 
secondary index would be useful for some.

-Nate

On Oct 10, 2011, at 7:09 AM, Sean Cribbs wrote:

&gt; 1. The design of secondary indexes is based on "document partitioning", which 
&gt; makes it very simple to keep indexes consistent with the objects they 
&gt; reference, but does mean that queries will have to communicate with a 
&gt; "covering set" of partitions, more or less (Ring Size / N) of them. This 
&gt; design is the dual of Riak Search's design, or "term partitioning", which 
&gt; only requires one partition to respond for a given index/field/term, but can 
&gt; be prone to hotspots.
&gt; 
&gt; I do not know of any comparisons to Cassandra's secondary index feature.
&gt; 
&gt; 2. See #1. It is stored in the same place as the objects themselves, which 
&gt; means queries need to contact many partitions.
&gt; 
&gt; On Mon, Oct 10, 2011 at 4:56 AM, OZAWA Tsuyoshi  
&gt; wrote:
&gt; Hi,
&gt; 
&gt; I have 2 questions about the riak's new feature - secondary index.
&gt; 
&gt; 1. Is there the scalability benchmark of the secondary index feature? I
&gt; read some blog about the implementation of riak secondary index, but it
&gt; seems to run scanning across mostly all nodes at worst case if my
&gt; expectation is correct. Secondary index feature of riak is more scalable
&gt; than the one of Cassandra?
&gt; 
&gt; 2. Where is the metadata which the nodes contain the indexed data? Is it
&gt; distributed across riak storage servers by consistent hashing?
&gt; 
&gt; Thank you.
&gt; 
&gt; Best Regards,
&gt; OZAWA Tsuyoshi
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; -- 
&gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt; Developer Advocate
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; http://www.basho.com/
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

