---
title: "Re: Riak Function Contrib"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-10-05T11:15:08-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01207"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg01206"
author_name: "francisco treacy"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-10-05T11:15:08-07:00
---


Very, very good idea!


2010/10/5 Mark Phillips :
&gt; Hey All,
&gt;
&gt; We are pushing to get some more resources out the door to help the
&gt; community better use Riak. Specifically, we are doing tons of work at
&gt; the moment to make MapReduce in Riak more robust and as simple to use
&gt; as possible. This is happening not only through code enhancement but
&gt; also through various documentation additions.
&gt;
&gt; I'm not sure if you're all familiar with projects like Clojure Contrib
&gt; --- http://github.com/richhickey/clojure-contrib --- but we thought
&gt; this would be a great model for our own Contrib Library. So, we are
&gt; creating something called "Riak Function Contrib."  When launched,
&gt; it'll be a home for community-contributed MapReduce and Pre- and
&gt; Post-Commit functions. The goal is to have Riak users submit code they
&gt; have used in their own apps and projects to build out a comprehensive
&gt; collection of functions such that, when a new user needs/wants to use
&gt; M/R or or Hook Functions in their app, they can browse the soon-to-be
&gt; vast number of functions that are already available and tested by
&gt; developers.
&gt;
&gt; The code will live on GitHub and there will be a sister-site with an
&gt; overview of what Riak Function Contrib is all about. When the repo and
&gt; site are up and running, code submission will be as simple as forking
&gt; the repo and sending a pull request. Using the code from the repo will
&gt; be just as easy.
&gt;
&gt; You'll notice I said "When launched..." It's not ready yet for several
&gt; reasons, one of which is because we wanted to put some code in there
&gt; at launch time. As I said, over time we are hooping it'll fill out
&gt; quite nicely, but we would like to have some functions in there to
&gt; start things off. So, if you've got MapReduce and/or Pre- and Post-
&gt; Commit functions that you are up for sharing with the community, I
&gt; want to hear from you. Shoot me an email and I'll give you the details
&gt; on how to get involved.
&gt;
&gt; And of course, thanks for being a part of Riak.
&gt;
&gt; Best,
&gt;
&gt; Mark
&gt;
&gt; Community Manager
&gt; Basho Technologies
&gt; wiki.basho.com
&gt; twitter.com/pharkmillups
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

