---
title: "Re: Ripple & Dynamic Default Values"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-02-10T06:48:52-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg02262"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg02259"
author_name: "Sean Cribbs"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-02-10T06:48:52-08:00
---


Mat,

Did you try method(:foo) ? Method objects respond to :call.

Sean Cribbs 
Developer Advocate
Basho Technologies, Inc.
http://basho.com/

On Feb 10, 2011, at 8:29 AM, Mat Ellis wrote:

&gt; For anyone else trying to do this, I couldn't find any docs on how to do 
&gt; dynamic default values.
&gt; 
&gt; Objective: add an auto-generated UUID field to a Click model using Twitter's 
&gt; simple\_uuid gem.
&gt; 
&gt; Class Click
&gt; include Ripple::Document
&gt; include SimpleUUID
&gt; 
&gt; property :uuid, String, :default =&gt; foo
&gt; key on :uuid
&gt; 
&gt; def foo
&gt; UUID.new.to\_guid
&gt; end
&gt; end
&gt; 
&gt; This just gave me "foo" every time:
&gt; 
&gt; Changing default to UUID.new.to\_guid gave me a nice uuid value but the same 
&gt; one each time.
&gt; 
&gt; I had to make the default property lambda { UUID.new.to\_guid } for it to work.
&gt; 
&gt; Many other gems/plugins have a convention that if your value in these cases 
&gt; is a symbol it treats it as a local function. This would mean changing the 
&gt; default function in the Ripple gem to something like (untested and untried!):
&gt; 
&gt; def default
&gt; default = options[:default]
&gt; 
&gt; return nil if default.nil?
&gt; if default.is\_a? :symbol
&gt; type\_cast(self.respond\_to?(:default) ? self.default : nil)
&gt; else
&gt; type\_cast(default.respond\_to?(:call) ? default.call : default)
&gt; end
&gt; end
&gt; 
&gt; M.
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

