---
title: "Search precommit hook bug?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-09-14T23:09:23-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04729"
author_name: "Elias Levy"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-09-14T23:09:23-07:00
---


While loading some data into a test cluster I using riak 1.0.0pre2 I came
across some sort of search related bug.

The cluster is configured with 3 nodes, N is 3, W is 1, WD is 0, and I am
connecting to protocol buffers. The program to load data can be configured
to use one or more connections using non-blocking IO connected across the
three nodes. I've successfully loaded several GB of data in a bucket with a
bitcask backend using 12 concurrent connections.

Then I decided to switching to a leveldb backend. When I did so, about 10
seconds into loading data I get the following error:

2011-09-15 05:43:19.161 [error]
&lt;0.17255.0&gt;@riak\_kv\_put\_fsm:decode\_precommit:607 Problem invoking pre-commit
hook riak\_search\_kv\_hook:precommit -&gt;
error:{case\_clause,{error,{r\_val\_unsatisfied,2,1}}}
[{riak\_indexed\_doc,put,3},{riak\_search\_kv\_hook,precommit,1},{riak\_kv\_put\_fsm,invoke\_hook,4},{riak\_kv\_put\_fsm,precommit,2},{gen\_fsm,handle\_msg,7},{proc\_lib,init\_p\_do\_apply,3}]

Now, the interesting part is that if I run the program again, using the same
input data, the loading succeeded without any errors.

This occurs with some of my other input files, although sometimes I need to
try loading them a few times before it succeeds. Maybe there are some
records that trigger the issue, but only if a key is newly inserted?

Elias Levy
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

