---
title: "Re: Setting up a Riak + Mongrel2 Stack"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-08-24T08:38:55-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04447"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04430"
author_name: "Jonathan Langevin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-08-24T08:38:55-07:00
---


I dunno about mongrel, but I know some of the guys at basho have personally
used a proxy in front of Riak (Matt Heitzenroder is one that's mentioned it
before, I've CC'd him).

My thought is that if you can find out the general configuration method of
how to set up a proxy in front of Riak (such as how it may differ from a
typical proxy, if there's any special headers you have to pass, what
settings to apply regarding caching, etc), you could then take that info to
the Mongrel community and get some specific help there for implementing the
proxy configuration with the general information you've gleamed from the
Basho guys.


\*Jonathan Langevin
Systems Administrator
Loom Inc.
Wilmington, NC: (910) 241-0433 - jlange...@loomlearning.com -
www.loomlearning.com - Skype: intel352\*



On Tue, Aug 23, 2011 at 5:28 PM, trevor stanhope wrote:

&gt; exactly. I'm looking to setup mongrel2 as front-end to a Riak kvs.
&gt;
&gt; On Tue, 2011-08-23 at 14:25 -0400, Jonathan Langevin wrote:
&gt; &gt; Is your intention to use mongrel as a proxy for Riak?
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Jonathan Langevin
&gt; &gt; Systems Administrator
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Loom Inc.
&gt; &gt; Wilmington, NC: (910) 241-0433
&gt; &gt; - jlange...@loomlearning.com - www.loomlearning.com - Skype: intel352
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; On Thu, Aug 18, 2011 at 2:01 AM, trevor stanhope
&gt; &gt;  wrote:
&gt; &gt; Hey, I've been probing around for any existing examples of a
&gt; &gt; Riak +
&gt; &gt; Mongrel2 stack being deployed and haven't had any luck. I'm
&gt; &gt; not familiar
&gt; &gt; with Mongrel2 but it was recommended to me and I'm very
&gt; &gt; interested in
&gt; &gt; deploying on that platform. What recommendations or who would
&gt; &gt; be best to
&gt; &gt; speak with on that subject?
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Best Regards,
&gt; &gt; Trev Stanhope
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

