---
title: "Re: Copying data between clusters"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-05-08T11:27:42-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00289"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg00284"
author_name: "Alan McConnell"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-05-08T11:27:42-07:00
---


Thanks Kevin,
Is there a way to set a default N (and R/W) value across a cluster via
configuration? I know there's a default\_props feature in configuration but
I don't know if it's possible to use that for default N/R/W values and I
don't know what the syntax is.

In case anyone was wondering I went ahead and tried a backup/restore between
production and test and it worked just fine. Restoring from a backup file
will work across different clusters.

On Fri, May 7, 2010 at 9:17 PM, Kevin Smith  wrote:

&gt; Alan -
&gt;
&gt; I can't answer your replication questions -- don't have a lot of experience
&gt; with it yet -- but I can take a stab at setting the global replication
&gt; setting.
&gt;
&gt; If I'm understanding correctly I believe you're referring to the N value. N
&gt; controls how many replicas of an entry Riak stores, in total, around the
&gt; cluster. Docs on tuning this value can be found here:
&gt; http://wiki.basho.com/display/RIAK/Replication
&gt;
&gt; --Kevin
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On May 7, 2010, at 10:06 PM, Alan McConnell wrote:
&gt;
&gt; &gt; • Is it possible to use the built-in backup/restore functions of
&gt; riak-admin to copy data between clusters? The scenario is that we have
&gt; separate test and production environments, each with separate riak clusters
&gt; of different sizes and configurations. Every so often we'd like to copy the
&gt; data from production into test. Can I run 'backup all' in prod, then run
&gt; restore on the resultant file in test, and have everything work? Or does
&gt; restore only work on the same cluster configuration that the backup was
&gt; performed on? What's the easiest way of doing this?
&gt; &gt; • I've noticed that backup takes a very long time, and results in a
&gt; file that is much larger than the actual cluster data directories of the
&gt; cluster. Is this normal?
&gt; &gt; • Not related to backups, but how do I configure the global
&gt; replication count of the cluster?
&gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

