---
title: "Re: Informal survey about Python client API changes"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-07-24T08:39:51-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08046"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg08044"
author_name: "Sean Cribbs"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-07-24T08:39:51-07:00
---


&gt;
&gt; So, on to my grandiose plans for the future of the Python Riak client.
&gt; We're currently using a combination of this client and Riakasaurus,
&gt; which is a Twisted-based client library that we maintain. Riakasaurus
&gt; is based (indirectly) on a previous version of the Python client, but
&gt; is different enough that it's impossible to pull in upstream changes
&gt; directly. The main reason for the divergence is that the Python client
&gt; assumes blocking network I/O operations that will return when they
&gt; have the required data, while Twisted uses an asynchronous
&gt; callback-based I/O mechanism.
&gt;
&gt;
So, ideally this would just be an alternate transport. However, I suspect
it might require adding optional kwargs to every call, where you might be
able to pass a callback (sorry, I'm not that familiar with Twisted, but
it's that way in Ruby's Eventmachine). If this is the case, I'd be
concerned about adding the additional complexity.


&gt; I think it would be possible to restructure the Python client somewhat
&gt; to decouple the higher-level operations from the lower-level network
&gt; operations in a way that would let us switch between Twisted-style
&gt; async I/O and more traditional blocking I/O. This would probably be a
&gt; fairly invasive change in some ways, but shouldn't have any noticeable
&gt; impact on the external API. I'm hoping it'll make the
&gt; ConnectionManager replacement cleaner and more flexible, but I don't
&gt; have a good enough mental model of the system to be sure.
&gt;
&gt; As the person proposing this, I'm happy to put some effort into
&gt; hacking up a prototype to see if this is actually a workable idea and
&gt; to do the bulk of the implementation work if it is -- it'll save on a
&gt; bunch of Riakasaurus maintenance in the future if we can pull it off.
&gt; I'm proposing some pretty drastic surgery to the existing codebase, so
&gt; I'd like to know if other people (especially Sean) think it's a good
&gt; idea before I sink too much time into it.
&gt;
&gt;
Please do send me or the mailing-list an outline of this, I'm interested in
hearing how it would work.

-- 
Sean Cribbs 
Software Engineer
Basho Technologies, Inc.
http://basho.com/
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

