---
title: "Re: Last modified date"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-12-02T02:30:18-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05847"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg05846"
author_name: "Russell Brown"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-12-02T02:30:18-08:00
---


Ooops, sorry, forgot to add that ticket number for you:

https://issues.basho.com/show\_bug.cgi?id=1299

On 2 Dec 2011, at 10:23, Russell Brown wrote:

&gt; 
&gt; On 1 Dec 2011, at 19:25, Sajithkumar Kizhakkiniyil wrote:
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Hello
&gt;&gt; I have couple of question regarding the last modified information fetching 
&gt;&gt; form Riak PB client
&gt;&gt; 1. The last modified is split into to two parts lastModified and 
&gt;&gt; lastModifiedUsec. How to combine these to make atypical EPOCH time. As the 
&gt;&gt; per the PB java code the calculation seems like (lastModified \* 1000L ) + 
&gt;&gt; (lastModifiedUsec / 100L); But on our testing the calculation seems to be 
&gt;&gt; more towards (lastModified \* 1000L ) + (lastModifiedUsec / 1000L); Which is 
&gt;&gt; accurate representation
&gt; 
&gt; This is a bug. I'll open a ticket for it. You can raise a bug against the 
&gt; riak-java-client either using the github issues[1] at the repo or basho's 
&gt; bugzilla[2].
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 2. Are these dates in UTC?
&gt; 
&gt; These dates are generated by a call to erlang:now() on the riak server node, 
&gt; so they will take whatever value the underlying OS on the server has for the 
&gt; current time., It would be nice if the timestamp included TZ info. You can 
&gt; create a feature request[3], or, if you consider the omission of TZ from a 
&gt; timestamp a bug, you can raise a bug against Riak[2].
&gt; 
&gt; Cheers
&gt; 
&gt; Russell
&gt; 
&gt; [1] https://github.com/basho/riak-java-client/issues
&gt; [2] https://issues.basho.com/
&gt; [3] http://features.basho.com/home
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Regards
&gt;&gt; Sajith
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; This message is private and confidential. If you have received it in error, 
&gt;&gt; please notify the sender and remove it from your system.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

