---
title: "Re: Python Driver Write Times"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-11-28T09:33:23-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01640"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg01639"
author_name: "Alexander Sicular"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-11-28T09:33:23-08:00
---


Keep in mind that if you are using the standard riak install each of your 
writes are actually written three times to disk. The default configuration is 
an n\_val of 3 for all buckets. For this reason I usually change the default 
config file or change the n\_val of the specific bucket i'm using for testing.

-Alexander Sicular

@siculars

On Nov 28, 2010, at 12:20 PM, Jeremiah Peschka wrote:

&gt; To add to this, you won't see write speeds as fast as people have reported in 
&gt; a variety of benchmarks because of I/O subsystem virtualization. You take a 
&gt; 10-15% performance hit with virtualized disk when using a pure hypervisor 
&gt; like VMWare ESX. Depending on your VM software, you could be taking a much 
&gt; larger hit to your disk performance.
&gt; 
&gt; As Greg said, though, the big reasons for this difference is that MongoDB 
&gt; caches writes in memory until the next file system sync interval and the fact 
&gt; that Riak is designed to be run in a cluster of at least 3 machines 
&gt; (preferably more).
&gt; 
&gt; Jeremiah Peschka
&gt; Microsoft SQL Server MVP
&gt; MCITP: Database Developer, DBA
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Sun, Nov 28, 2010 at 12:10 PM, Greg Steffensen  
&gt; wrote:
&gt; This is due to two factors:
&gt; 
&gt; 1) Durability. MongoDB stores writes in RAM and flushes them to disk 
&gt; periodically (by default, every 60 seconds, according to this page: 
&gt; http://www.mongodb.org/display/DOCS/Durability+and+Repair). This means that 
&gt; its writes can seem very, very fast, but if the machine goes down, you could 
&gt; lose up to 60 seconds of data. Riak writes don't return until the data has 
&gt; actually been persisted to disk. Casandra takes the same approach as 
&gt; MongoDB, with the same trade-off. 
&gt; 
&gt; 2) Parallelism. This test isn't taking advantage of Riak's distributed 
&gt; nature. Riak really shines when its run on a cluster of machines- you can 
&gt; make your write throughput almost arbitrarily fast, as long as you're willing 
&gt; add enough machines to the cluster. 
&gt; 
&gt; I doubt that you'll be able to get single-node Riak to write as fast as 
&gt; Mongo, but I'd guess that that numbers will get a little closer if you do 
&gt; several writes simultaneously in both by multi-threading using python's 
&gt; threading module. Also, be sure that you're using Riak's protocol buffers 
&gt; interface, instead of the REST (HTTP) one, which adds a lot of overhead- I 
&gt; believe the python client supports both. 
&gt; 
&gt; Greg
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Sun, Nov 28, 2010 at 11:48 AM, Derek Sanderson  wrote:
&gt; Hello,
&gt; 
&gt; I've recently started to explore using Riak (v0.13.0-2) from Python (v2.6.5) 
&gt; as a datastore, and I've run into a performance issue that I'm unsure of the 
&gt; true origin of, and would like some input from users who have been working 
&gt; with Riak and its Python drivers.
&gt; 
&gt; I have 2 tests set up, one for Riak and another for MongoDB, both using their 
&gt; respectively provided Python drivers. I'm constructing chunks of JSON data 
&gt; consisting of a Person, who has an Address, and a purchase history which 
&gt; contains 1 to 20 line items with some data about the item name, cost, # 
&gt; puchased, etc. A very simple mockup of a purchase history. It does this for 1 
&gt; million "people" (my initial goal was to see how lookups fared when you reach 
&gt; 1m+ records)
&gt; 
&gt; When using MongoDB, the speed of inserts is incredibly fast. When using Riak, 
&gt; however, there is a very noticeable lag after each insert. So much so that 
&gt; when running side by side, the MongoDB test breaks into the 10,000s before 
&gt; Riak hits it's first 1k.
&gt; 
&gt; My main PC is a Windows7 i7 quad core, with 8 gigs of ram, on which I'm 
&gt; running Ubuntu64 v10.04 on a VM, which has 2GB of memory allotted. On this 
&gt; VM, I have Riak and MongoDB running concurrently.
&gt; 
&gt; Here is a sample of how I'm using the Riak driver:
&gt; 
&gt; riak\_conn = RiakClient()
&gt; bucket = riak\_conn.bucket("peopledb")
&gt; for i in range(1,1000000):
&gt; try:
&gt; new\_obj = bucket.new("p" + str(i),MakePerson())
&gt; new\_obj.store(return\_body=False)
&gt; except Exception as e:
&gt; print e
&gt; 
&gt; I'm wondering if there is something blatantly wrong I'm doing. I didn't see 
&gt; any kind of batch-store method on the bucket (instead of calling store on 
&gt; each object, simply persist the entirety of the bucket itself), and I wasn't 
&gt; sure if this was an issue with my particular setup (maybe the specifics of my 
&gt; VM are somehow throttling its performance), or maybe just a known limitation 
&gt; that I wasn't aware of.
&gt; 
&gt; To shed some light on the disparity, I re factored my persistence into 
&gt; separate methods, and used a wrapper to pull out the execution times. Here is 
&gt; a very condensed list of run times. The method in question, for both 
&gt; datastores, simply creates a new "Person" and stores it. Nothing else.
&gt; 
&gt; MakeRiakPerson took 40.139 ms
&gt; MakeRiakPerson took 40.472 ms
&gt; MakeRiakPerson took 40.651 ms
&gt; MakeRiakPerson took 51.630 ms
&gt; MakeRiakPerson took 36.733 ms
&gt; 
&gt; MakeMongoPerson took 1.810 ms
&gt; MakeMongoPerson took 3.619 ms
&gt; MakeMongoPerson took 1.036 ms
&gt; MakeMongoPerson took 1.275 ms
&gt; MakeMongoPerson took 3.656 ms
&gt; 
&gt; Thankyou in advance for any help that can be offered here. I'm incredibly new 
&gt; to Riak as a whole, as well as very inexperienced when it comes to working in 
&gt; a \*nix environment, so I imagine there are countless ways I could have shot 
&gt; myself in the foot without realizing it. 
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

