---
title: "Re: Link and CorrugatedIron"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-11-09T22:57:37-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg09274"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg09262"
author_name: "OJ Reeves"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-11-09T22:57:37-08:00
---


Kevin,

We designed CI's interface in such a way to avoid the user (ie. you!) from
having to worry about the transport mechanism. Most of the features of Riak
are available via the PB interface, with just a couple of small things only
available through the HTTP interface. CI uses PB where possible as this is
noticeably faster than the HTTP interface. It will fall back to HTTP for
those cases where it has to.

I personally feel that this is how the clients should be designed.
Transport information leaking up to the user of the library isn't
particularly nice and results in user code changes when features shift to
different transport mechanisms.

The docs on CI.org are definitely minimal, and that's something that
Jeremiah and are I looking to fix up when we finally get v1.0 out the door
with full Riak 1.2 support (including a fluent search interface). However,
while they're minimal they do cover a number of common cases, particularly
the ones which would get you started. There are sample applications that
you can browse as well which show you how to get going.

So in short, no there's probably no correlation to what you're reading in
7DBI7W, because that book is about teaching the user about Riak, not about
how to use the client APIs in the most optimum way. What kind of
documentation are you looking for that is lacking? Are you looking to learn
more about Riak specifically? If so, then I'd recommend opening up a
command prompt and probing Riak with cURL. You'll learn a lot. If you're
wanting to get going with CI, then have a read through the docs we do have
and hit us with questions.

If you don't want to hit the list with CI related questions, please feel
free to contact both me and Jeremiah (CCed) directly. We're happy to help.

Best.
OJ




On Sat, Nov 10, 2012 at 3:09 AM, Kevin Burton wrote:

&gt; I have read about links and link walking in "Seven Databases in Seven
&gt; Weeks". But they concentrate their coverage with examples using curl and
&gt; the REST interface. I was wondering if someone either has used
&gt; CorrugatedIron support for these features or could point me to some more in
&gt; depth documentation on the subject? I have looked at CorrugatedIron.org and
&gt; there is minimal documentation there. I was hoping more for some kind of
&gt; correlation between the REST interface calls and the methods in CI that
&gt; support the functionality. Again sorry about the specific driver related
&gt; question but this forum was as close as I could get. Thank you.
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;



-- 

OJ Reeves
+61 431 952 586
http://buffered.io/
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

