---
title: "Re: Error Installing Erlang Client"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-06-07T06:41:24-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00514"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg00513"
author_name: "Jon Meredith"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-06-07T06:41:24-07:00
---



Hi Ted,

You should just need the riak-erlang-client/ebin and the protobuffs 
library. Here's an example on my local machine. I just checked the 
docs and there's a mistake in there. The module you can test to see if 
you have it all set up correctly is riakc\_pb\_socket.


jons-macpro:systest jmeredith$ erl -pa ~/basho/riak-erlang-client/ebin 
~/basho/riak-erlang-client/deps/protobuffs/ebin
Erlang R13B04 (erts-5.7.5) [source] [smp:8:8] [rq:8] [async-threads:0] 
[hipe] [kernel-poll:false]


Eshell V5.7.5 (abort with ^G)
1&gt; code:which(riakc\_pb\_socket).
"/Users/jmeredith/basho/riak-erlang-client/ebin/riakc\_pb\_socket.beam"

Sorry for any confusion. Hopefully you'll be off to the races, Jon.

On 6/7/10 7:33 AM, Ted Karmel wrote:

I have a similar problem to an earlier mailing list post :
http://lists.basho.com/pipermail/riak-users\_lists.basho.com/2010-May/001094.html

I tried following
riak/client\_lib/riak-erlang-client/docs/pb-client.txt plus the
suggestions in that post all to no avail.

But, here is in detail what I attempted:



 erl -pa $PATHTORIAKC/ebin


I naturally replaced PATHTORIAKC :
/home/tedkarmel/riak/client-libs/riak-erlang-client

It seems to work but then I get 'non\_existing' when I tried to enter



 code:which(riak\_pb\_client).


I then tried the suggested alternative installation



 cd riak-erlang-client



 ./rebar install


I get the following error message:

Error: One or more modules listed in riackc.app are not present in ebin/\*.beam
\*riackc\_obj
\*riackc\_pb
\*riackc\_pb\_socket
\*riackclient\_pb

I then tried the following which was suggested in the previous mailing
post about installation errors:



make clean&& make all


Then I try again



 ./rebar install


which works this time

But when I try again



code:which(riak\_pb\_client).


I get



 non\_existing


I then tried as suggested in the previous mailing list post about the error



 erl -pa ebin/ deps/\*/ebin


But still get the non\_existing error

help... :(

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com




\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

