---
title: "Re: Announcing Riak 1.1 release candidate 2"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-02-10T00:09:21-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06579"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06573"
author_name: "Russell Brown"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-02-10T00:09:21-08:00
---



On 10 Feb 2012, at 03:04, Jeremiah Peschka wrote:

&gt; Are there any protocol changes for client developers to be aware of, or are 
&gt; we safe?

Not strictly a protocol change, but It is possible to run a MapReduce job 
\*without\* phases now. If your client previously disallowed this it should 
change.

To make it clear - the MapReduce JSON must still contain both 'inputs' and 
'query' elements, but 'query' may be an empty list '[]'. In 1.0.\* this would 
result in a 400 with the body

"An error occurred parsing the "query" field.
"No query phases were given\n""

In 1.1 you will get a list of Bucket/Key pairs returned.

Cheers

Russell

&gt; ---
&gt; Jeremiah Peschka
&gt; Managing Director, Brent Ozar PLF, LLC
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Thu, Feb 9, 2012 at 7:01 PM, Jared Morrow  wrote:
&gt; The next release candidate has been built and uploaded to our Downloads page 
&gt; listed below. The RELEASE-NOTES at the link below has also been updated 
&gt; with the latest fixes.
&gt; 
&gt; Lastly, we are tentatively planning on releasing Riak 1.1 the week of 
&gt; February 20th, so if you have some particular test cases you want to run 
&gt; before we cut the final release, now is your chance!
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; Jared
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Feb 7, 2012, at 9:25 PM, Jared Morrow wrote:
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Riak Users,
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; I am pleased to announce the availability of Riak 1.1.0 RC (release 
&gt;&gt; candidate) 1. We are providing RC packages of 1.1 to the community like we 
&gt;&gt; did with the last major release (Riak 1.0) in the hopes that you as a 
&gt;&gt; community can offer us feedback before final release. Unlike 1.0 though, 
&gt;&gt; we are planning the 1.1 release to be a shorter cycle from first RC to final 
&gt;&gt; release (barring any major event or bug that is found with RC1 obviously). 
&gt;&gt; So, please download, install, abuse, and enjoy RC1 and let us know what you 
&gt;&gt; think.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Download from the downloads page http://basho.com/resources/downloads/ 
&gt;&gt; under 1.1 or CURRENT.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; An extremely rough initial draft of the 1.1 release notes is available here: 
&gt;&gt; https://github.com/basho/riak/blob/master/RELEASE-NOTES.org
&gt;&gt; I assure you it will be filled out with actual descriptions of features 
&gt;&gt; added by the time 1.1 ships. 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; As always, thanks from the entire Basho team!
&gt;&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

