---
title: "Re: Problem with deleting keys"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-06-16T10:07:57-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03719"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg03716"
author_name: "David Leimbach"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-06-16T10:07:57-07:00
---


On Thu, Jun 16, 2011 at 9:49 AM, Les Mikesell  wrote:

&gt; On 6/16/2011 10:22 AM, Nico Meyer wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Btw, this whole issue is not really Riak specific. It is essentially a
&gt;&gt; consequence of eventual consistency, where you have to make a trade off
&gt;&gt; between the amount of bookkeeping information you want to store and the
&gt;&gt; maximum amount of time (or number of updates) any part of the system can
&gt;&gt; diverge from the rest of the system before you get undesired results.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt; The 'eventual consistency' description makes you think the system will
&gt; eventually fix itself, though. But, won't you have a similar scenario - and
&gt; even more difficult to fix - where for one reason or another you need to
&gt; restore a backed up bitcask file that contains items deleted after the time
&gt; the backup was done?
&gt;

Consistency doesn't have to be "correct". It absolutely is consistent for a
deleted key on one node in a replica, to replicate itself even if it was
purposefully deleted from the other N-1 nodes.

It just means something is consistent. Raising awareness to the issues of
key deletes and how they might be restored in the system is very important
for a designer of applications for eventually consistent systems.

Dave


&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Les Mikesell
&gt; lesmikes...@gmail.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

