---
title: "Re: Building rel on Debian 2.6.26"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-04-23T09:19:57-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00144"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg00143"
author_name: "Matthew Pflueger"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-04-23T09:19:57-07:00
---


Cloning the riak repo and building worked fine. However, not being
able to build from the tarball is a little disconcerting...
--Matthew



On Fri, Apr 23, 2010 at 12:13, Matthew Pflueger
 wrote:
&gt; Thanks for the tip.  Unfortunately, disabling doesn't seem to work...
&gt; I disabled it in my ~/.hgrc and in ebloom's .hg/hgrc to no avail.  I
&gt; downloaded riak-0.10.tar.gz and installed so no .hg directory.  Any
&gt; other suggestions?
&gt;
&gt; --Matthew
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Fri, Apr 23, 2010 at 11:56, Ryan Tilder  wrote:
&gt;&gt; Sounds like you have Mercurial's inotify extension enabled.  hg showconfig
&gt;&gt; should show it.  Workaround for now would be to following the directions in
&gt;&gt; the below link for disabling the extension in the riak repo.  In
&gt;&gt; riak/.hg/hgrc:
&gt;&gt; [extensions]
&gt;&gt; inotify = !
&gt;&gt; http://mercurial.selenic.com/wiki/UsingExtensions#Enabling\_an\_extension
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; --Ryan
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Fri, Apr 23, 2010 at 8:48 AM, Matthew Pflueger
&gt;&gt;  wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; I downloaded built Erlang successfully (minus jinterface, odbc, and
&gt;&gt;&gt; wx) then downloaded riak-0.10.  I did a make all and everything built
&gt;&gt;&gt; fine but then doing a make rel I get the following:
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; ==&gt; rel (generate)
&gt;&gt;&gt; ERROR: Unable to generate spec: read file info
&gt;&gt;&gt; /home/mpflueger/riak/rel/../deps/ebloom/.hg/inotify.sock failed
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Has anybody else run into this?  Could this be related to my mercurial
&gt;&gt;&gt; install (I'm using 1.51 downloaded and installed normally using
&gt;&gt;&gt; python2.5).
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; --Matthew
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

