---
title: "Re: Building Riak Search on OS X"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-08-23T22:06:28-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04441"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04439"
author_name: "Jeremiah Peschka"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-08-23T22:06:28-07:00
---


Yup, that sure did the trick. Thanks.
---
Jeremiah Peschka - Founder, Brent Ozar PLF, LLC
Microsoft SQL Server MVP

On Aug 23, 2011, at 9:16 PM, Ryan Zezeski wrote:

&gt; Jeremiah,
&gt; 
&gt; IIRC, all 14.x stuff is meant to be compiled against 13B04.
&gt; 
&gt; -Ryan
&gt; 
&gt; On Wed, Aug 24, 2011 at 12:09 AM, Jeremiah Peschka 
&gt;  wrote:
&gt; Ah, is this the "It won't work on the latest and greatest Erlang" issue that 
&gt; crops up every now and then?
&gt; ---
&gt; Jeremiah Peschka - Founder, Brent Ozar PLF, LLC
&gt; Microsoft SQL Server MVP
&gt; 
&gt; On Aug 23, 2011, at 9:08 PM, Andrew Thompson wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; &gt; On Tue, Aug 23, 2011 at 09:02:30PM -0700, Jeremiah Peschka wrote:
&gt; &gt;&gt; Has anyone managed to build Riak Search 0.14.2 on OS X? When I try with 
&gt; &gt;&gt; the version from homebrew (or pulling the riak\_search-0.14.2 tag from 
&gt; &gt;&gt; github) I get the following error:
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; Compiling src/riakclient.proto
&gt; &gt;&gt; WARNING: option deprecated
&gt; &gt;&gt; Config option 'fail\_on\_warning' has been deprecated
&gt; &gt;&gt; in favor of 'warnings\_as\_errors'.
&gt; &gt;&gt; 'fail\_on\_warning' will be removed once OTP R14B03 is released.
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; Compiled src/riakc\_obj.erl
&gt; &gt;&gt; Compiled src/riakc\_pb.erl
&gt; &gt;&gt; src/riakc\_pb\_socket.erl:62: type ip\_address() undefined
&gt; &gt;&gt; make: \*\*\* [compile] Error 1
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; When I attempt to follow the wiki directions for getting started with the 
&gt; &gt;&gt; pre-built packages, I download a tiny file that's not in a valid .tar.gz 
&gt; &gt;&gt; format and that's all she wrote.
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; Thoughts? Experiences?
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; I'm pretty sure that's caused by the wrong version of Erlang. You can
&gt; &gt; correct the error by prefixing the ip\_address type with inet: to give
&gt; &gt; you inet:ip\_address() but you'll likely run into NIF compilation errors
&gt; &gt; later on in the build.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Andrew
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

