---
title: "Re: Running the python client's test suite"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-10-03T11:03:44-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05000"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04999"
author_name: "Honza Král"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-10-03T11:03:44-07:00
---


Awesome, the test suite is passing for me with these settings.

Thanks a lot

Honza Král
E-Mail: honza.k...@gmail.com
Phone:  +420 606 678585



On Mon, Oct 3, 2011 at 8:00 PM, Reid Draper  wrote:
&gt; There have been some changes in Riak 1.0 with regard to how deletes work,
&gt; and the python client has not been updated appropriately yet. In the
&gt; meantime, you can add the option:
&gt; {delete\_mode, immediate} to the riak\_kv section of app.config of Riak. This
&gt; should allow all of the tests to pass. You can read more about the changes
&gt; in the release notes
&gt; here https://github.com/basho/riak/blob/master/RELEASE-NOTES.org under the
&gt; Delete Changes heading.
&gt; Hope this helps.
&gt;
&gt; On Mon, Oct 3, 2011 at 1:41 PM, Honza Král  wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Mon, Oct 3, 2011 at 7:31 PM, Greg Stein  wrote:
&gt;&gt; &gt; Your search/luwak tests are failing, presumably because those options
&gt;&gt; &gt; are not enabled in your Riak installation. You can disable them in the
&gt;&gt; &gt; test suite by doing:
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; $ SKIP\_SEARCH=1 SKIP\_LUWAK=1 python setup.py test
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks, I tried this right after I sent the email. It helped some (17
&gt;&gt; skipped tests) but it's still failing
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; You also seem to be running into a problem with leftover keys in one
&gt;&gt; &gt; of the test buckets. That problem is fixed by pull request #67, which
&gt;&gt; &gt; has not been merged :-( ... if you grab that fix, then a couple of
&gt;&gt; &gt; your errors will go away.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; yep, some of them did, thanks. I updated the log at the same url,
&gt;&gt; after these two changes I still have
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; FAILED (failures=6, errors=2, skipped=17)
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; I see some additional failures based on extra siblings... I don't know
&gt;&gt; &gt; what is happening there.
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; Cheers,
&gt;&gt; &gt; -g
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; On Mon, Oct 3, 2011 at 13:22, Honza Král  wrote:
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; Hi everybody,
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; I cannot get the test suite in the python client to run, I have tried
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; on Arch Linux on my notebook and then on an Ubunty Natty system on EC2
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; with riak 1.0.0:
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; wget http://downloads.basho.com/riak/riak-1.0.0/riak\_1.0.0-1\_amd64.deb
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; sudo dpkg -i riak\_1.0.0-1\_amd64.deb
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; sudo /etc/init.d/riak start
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; sudo apt-get install python-protobuf
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; git clone git://github.com/basho/riak-python-client.git
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; virtualenv riak
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; . riak/bin/activate
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; cd riak-python-client
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; python setup.py install
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; python setup.py test
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; and I get:
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; FAILED (failures=6, errors=19)
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; The full test output can be found at:
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; http://www.honzakral.com/riak\_python\_test.out
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; If anybody can point out what I did wrong or how to make the tests
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; work I would be most grateful.
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; Thanks!
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; Honza Král
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; E-Mail: honza.k...@gmail.com
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

