---
title: "Re: Riak Client Resources,	Deleting a Key Doesn't Remove it from bucket.keys"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-05-26T09:38:36-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03426"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg03423"
author_name: "Sean Cribbs"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-05-26T09:38:36-07:00
---


With recent commits ( 
https://github.com/seancribbs/ripple/compare/35d7323fb0e179c8c971...da3ab71a19d194c65a7b
 ), it is cached until you either refresh it manually by passing :reload =&gt; 
true or a block (for streaming key lists). This was the compromise reached in 
that pull-request.

All of this caching discussion glosses over the fact that you should not list 
keys in any real application. It really begs the question -- how often do you 
list keys in Redis, or memcached? I suspect that generally you don't. This 
isn't a relational database. (Also, how often do you actually do a full-table 
scan in MySQL? You don't if you're sane -- you use an index, or even LIMIT + 
OFFSET.)

I'm tempted to remove Document::all and make Bucket#keys harder to access, but 
the balance between discouraging bad behavior and exposing available 
functionality is a hard one to strike. I don't want new developers to 
immediately use list-keys and then be discouraged from using Riak because it's 
slow; on the other hand, it can be useful in some circumstances. In those 
cases where it's useful, the developer should probably be responsible enough to 
request the key list only once; the caching behavior simply does this for them. 
I guess whether it should do this for them is the issue at hand.

All that said, I'm really torn on this issue, and the same problem applies to 
full-bucket MapReduce. Caveat emptor.

Sean Cribbs 
Developer Advocate
Basho Technologies, Inc.
http://basho.com/

On May 26, 2011, at 10:35 AM, Jonathan Langevin wrote:

&gt; How long is the key list cached like that, naturally?
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; Jonathan Langevin
&gt; Systems Administrator
&gt; Loom Inc.
&gt; Wilmington, NC: (910) 241-0433 - jlange...@loomlearning.com - 
&gt; www.loomlearning.com - Skype: intel352
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Thu, May 26, 2011 at 10:35 AM, Sean Cribbs  wrote:
&gt; Keith,
&gt; 
&gt; There was a pull-request issue out for this on the Github project 
&gt; (https://github.com/seancribbs/ripple/pull/168). For various reasons, the 
&gt; list of keys is memoized in the Riak::Bucket instance. Passing :reload =&gt; 
&gt; true to the #keys method will cause it to refresh. I like to discourage 
&gt; list-keys, but with the memoized list you don't shoot yourself in the foot as 
&gt; often.
&gt; 
&gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt; Developer Advocate
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; http://basho.com/
&gt; 
&gt; On May 26, 2011, at 10:29 AM, Keith Bennett wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; &gt; All -
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; I just started working with Riak, and am using the riak-client Ruby gem.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; When I delete a key from a bucket, and try to fetch the value associated 
&gt; &gt; with that key, I get a 404 error (which is reasonable). However, it 
&gt; &gt; remains in the bucket's list of keys (i.e. the value returned by 
&gt; &gt; bucket.keys(). Why is the key still reported to exist in the bucket? Is 
&gt; &gt; bucket.keys cached, and therefore unaware of the deletion? Here's a 
&gt; &gt; riak-client Ruby script and its output in irb that illustrates this:
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; ree-1.8.7-2010.02 :001 &gt; require 'riak'
&gt; &gt; =&gt; true
&gt; &gt; ree-1.8.7-2010.02 :002 &gt;
&gt; &gt; ree-1.8.7-2010.02 :003 &gt; client = Riak::Client.new
&gt; &gt; =&gt; #
&gt; &gt; ree-1.8.7-2010.02 :004 &gt; bucket = client['links']
&gt; &gt; =&gt; #
&gt; &gt; ree-1.8.7-2010.02 :005 &gt; key = bucket.keys.first
&gt; &gt; =&gt; "4000-17.xml"
&gt; &gt; ree-1.8.7-2010.02 :006 &gt; object = bucket[key]
&gt; &gt; =&gt; #
&gt; &gt; ree-1.8.7-2010.02 :007 &gt; object.delete
&gt; &gt; =&gt; #
&gt; &gt; ree-1.8.7-2010.02 :008 &gt; bucket.keys.first
&gt; &gt; =&gt; "4000-17.xml"
&gt; &gt; ree-1.8.7-2010.02 :009 &gt; object = bucket[key]
&gt; &gt; Riak::HTTPFailedRequest: Expected [200, 300] from Riak but received 404. 
&gt; &gt; not found
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; from 
&gt; &gt; /Users/kbennett/.rvm/gems/ree-1.8.7-2010.02/gems/riak-client-0.9.4/lib/riak/client/net\_http\_backend.rb:55:in
&gt; &gt; `perform'
&gt; &gt; from 
&gt; &gt; /Users/kbennett/.rvm/rubies/ree-1.8.7-2010.02/lib/ruby/1.8/net/http.rb:1054:in
&gt; &gt; `request'
&gt; &gt; from 
&gt; &gt; /Users/kbennett/.rvm/rubies/ree-1.8.7-2010.02/lib/ruby/1.8/net/http.rb:2142:in
&gt; &gt; `reading\_body'
&gt; &gt; from 
&gt; &gt; /Users/kbennett/.rvm/rubies/ree-1.8.7-2010.02/lib/ruby/1.8/net/http.rb:1053:in
&gt; &gt; `request'
&gt; &gt; from 
&gt; &gt; /Users/kbennett/.rvm/rubies/ree-1.8.7-2010.02/lib/ruby/1.8/net/http.rb:1037:in
&gt; &gt; `request'
&gt; &gt; from 
&gt; &gt; /Users/kbennett/.rvm/rubies/ree-1.8.7-2010.02/lib/ruby/1.8/net/http.rb:543:in
&gt; &gt; `start'
&gt; &gt; from 
&gt; &gt; /Users/kbennett/.rvm/rubies/ree-1.8.7-2010.02/lib/ruby/1.8/net/http.rb:1035:in
&gt; &gt; `request'
&gt; &gt; from 
&gt; &gt; /Users/kbennett/.rvm/gems/ree-1.8.7-2010.02/gems/riak-client-0.9.4/lib/riak/client/net\_http\_backend.rb:47:in
&gt; &gt; `perform'
&gt; &gt; from 
&gt; &gt; /Users/kbennett/.rvm/gems/ree-1.8.7-2010.02/gems/riak-client-0.9.4/lib/riak/client/net\_http\_backend.rb:46:in
&gt; &gt; `tap'
&gt; &gt; from 
&gt; &gt; /Users/kbennett/.rvm/gems/ree-1.8.7-2010.02/gems/riak-client-0.9.4/lib/riak/client/net\_http\_backend.rb:46:in
&gt; &gt; `perform'
&gt; &gt; from 
&gt; &gt; /Users/kbennett/.rvm/gems/ree-1.8.7-2010.02/gems/riak-client-0.9.4/lib/riak/client/http\_backend/transport\_methods.rb:59:in
&gt; &gt; `get'
&gt; &gt; from 
&gt; &gt; /Users/kbennett/.rvm/gems/ree-1.8.7-2010.02/gems/riak-client-0.9.4/lib/riak/client/http\_backend.rb:72:in
&gt; &gt; `fetch\_object'
&gt; &gt; from 
&gt; &gt; /Users/kbennett/.rvm/gems/ree-1.8.7-2010.02/gems/riak-client-0.9.4/lib/riak/bucket.rb:101:in
&gt; &gt; `[]'
&gt; &gt; from riak-delete-failure.rb:9
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Thanks,
&gt; &gt; Keith
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

