---
title: "Re: innostore performance tuning"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-08-30T18:21:50-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04530"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04529"
author_name: "David Smith"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-08-30T18:21:50-07:00
---


On Tue, Aug 30, 2011 at 5:31 PM, David Koblas  wrote:
&gt;
&gt; The one issue that I see with LevelDB in a big insert job like this is file
&gt; descriptors, I've currently got about 9,000 files open on the machine, I'm
&gt; guessing that I'll run out of file descriptors before the load is done.   Is
&gt; there a configuration parameter to change the size of the SST files before
&gt; they're rolled?

No, you can't control SST rollover (that I've seen), but you can
control how many file descriptors are in use, per-vnode. In the
section for eleveldb in app.config add the directive:

{max\_open\_files, N}

Note that this will restrict number of open handles \_per vnode\_, so
you'll still need to ensure that your ulimit -n is set higher than #
of vnodes \* max\_open\_files. Also note that this may affect performance
if set too low, since it will require the system to open/close files
rapidly.

Ultimately, the reason innostore was slow was likely due to the fact
that if you were not inserting in sorted order, it was a worst case
scenario for updating the b-tree. LevelDB gets around this by
discarding the b-tree idea altogether in exchange for slightly higher
whole-tree traversal and less cache-locality in that scenario. Seems
like a reasonable tradeoff in all the testing I've done. :)

D.
-- 
Dave Smith
Director, Engineering
Basho Technologies, Inc.
diz...@basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

