---
title: "Re: Problem running Innostore at Mac OS X"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-05-17T08:41:31-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00397"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg00384"
author_name: "Ryan Tilder"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-05-17T08:41:31-07:00
---


Which hardware platform are you running on? I'm guessing PowerPC. Bus
errors pretty much don't happen on x86 platforms any more. If you haven't
filed a bug with the full output of the error, please do so. We can't do
much for you without more detailed info.

--Ryan

On Sun, May 16, 2010 at 2:12 AM, Dmitry Demeshchuk wrote:

&gt; Greetings.
&gt;
&gt; I'm running Mac OS X 10.5.8. Riak 0.10.1 is compiled and works good.
&gt; However, when I install Innostore like described at the wiki page and
&gt; try to perform any operations with Riak, node goes down.
&gt;
&gt; When I start riak using `bin/riak console`, everything seems to work good:
&gt;
&gt; 100516 12:48:13 Embedded InnoDB 1.0.6.6750 started; log sequence number
&gt; 44243
&gt;
&gt; But when I try to get keys from a bucket, to put any data using basic
&gt; Erlang interface (either from the other Erlang node or from the opened
&gt; console), Riak crashes with bus error.
&gt; I tried to start Riak as root but with the same result. Then thought
&gt; that perhaps free disk space is too low (about 12 GB) and freed some
&gt; space (up to about 20 GB) but still get the same result. Also, tried
&gt; to turn SMP on and off - still no result.
&gt;
&gt; I'm going to try installing it on my FreeBSD machine, will write about
&gt; the results.
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Best regards,
&gt; Dmitry Demeshchuk
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

