---
title: "Re: Riak async PB client based on Grizzly"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-06-22T05:47:27-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03780"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg03777"
author_name: "Jon Brisbin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-06-22T05:47:27-07:00
---


----- Original Message -----

&gt; Well, you have 2 choices

&gt; 1) Abstract away the fact that your client is async, so you can
&gt; implement RiakResponse etc as wrappers around a Future, first call
&gt; to a method calls get on the Future
&gt; 2) You can require your users to think aysnc and code callbacks

&gt; If you do the latter (or both) you might be best extending the
&gt; RawClient interface (or just defining a new one (your
&gt; RawAsyncClient)) if you re-use stuff like RiakResponse/IRiakObject
&gt; etc then it would be awesome and much easier to integrate into the
&gt; Basho library. It would be great to offer library users the option
&gt; to go async without changing their higher-level code.
I think what I'd like to do is both. :) 

I'll start with a RawAsyncClient that replaces direct object returns with 
Futures and override that with one that takes a callback. I'll also base the 
PBC stuff on both IRiakObject and borrow from what's already in the pbc support 
in the driver, but integrate some Builder abstractions (something I'm doing 
in-line now). 

Once that's done, I can implement a version of RawClient that calls get() on 
everything, so it's fully compatible. But by using as much from the driver as I 
can, application code should be quite compatible , even on the fully async 
side. 

Thanks! 

Jon Brisbin 
http//jbrisbin.com 

&gt; Whichever, get it up on github and we can start playing around with
&gt; it! :D

&gt; &gt; Thanks!
&gt; 

&gt; &gt; Jon Brisbin
&gt; 
&gt; &gt; http//jbrisbin.com
&gt; 

&gt; &gt; ----- Original Message -----
&gt; 

&gt; &gt; &gt; From: "Russell Brown" &lt; russell.br...@me.com &gt;
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; To: "Jon Brisbin" &lt; j...@jbrisbin.com &gt;
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; Cc: "riak-users Users" &lt; riak-users@lists.basho.com &gt;
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; Sent: Wednesday, June 22, 2011 2:27:17 AM
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; Subject: Re: Riak async PB client based on Grizzly
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; 

&gt; &gt; &gt; Hey Jon,
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; Any chance you want to implement the RawClient interface (
&gt; &gt; &gt; https://github.com/basho/riak-java-client/blob/master/src/main/java/com/basho/riak/client/raw/RawClient.java
&gt; &gt; &gt; ) from the basho riak-java-client library? That way your client
&gt; &gt; &gt; can
&gt; &gt; &gt; be swapped straight into the basho lib?
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; 

&gt; &gt; &gt; If not, let me know when you get a repo up on github and I'll
&gt; &gt; &gt; write
&gt; &gt; &gt; an adapter so that the basho riak-java-client can make use of
&gt; &gt; &gt; your
&gt; &gt; &gt; Grizzly client, which I guess means I'll pitch in a little (time
&gt; &gt; &gt; permitting) to help shape the Grizzly client so it is RawClient
&gt; &gt; &gt; shaped.
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; 

&gt; &gt; &gt; Cheers
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; 

&gt; &gt; &gt; Russell
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; 

&gt; &gt; &gt; On 21 Jun 2011, at 17:58, Jon Brisbin wrote:
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; 

&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; I'm trying to get my feet wet with Grizzly on another project,
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; so
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; I've been spending some late(ish) nights also working on a
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; Grizzly-based asynchronous PB client for Riak. I'm dropping all
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; the
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; way down to the protobuf level and using Grizzly's NIO
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; abstractions
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; to implement a completely non-blocking client. I'm writing the
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; low-level stuff in Java and I'd really like to build a Scala
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; layer
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; on top of this, which uses the nice Scala idioms (operators,
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; case
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; classes, etc...). But I can't write code as fast in Scala as I
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; can
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; in Java and some of the Java APIs inside Grizzly aren't all
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; that
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; Scala-friendly and make the code pretty ugly. I figured it
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; would
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; be
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; better to implement a fairly low-level PB client in Java and
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; flesh
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; out the user-facing API in Scala and/or Java.
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; 

&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; My question is basically, if I seed this project on GitHub with
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; what
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; I've got so far, would anyone else be interested in helping
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; complete
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; it? I'm just working on this after my other Grizzly work, so I
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; can't
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; devote full time to it. It might take me a little while to
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; implement
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; things like links and mapreduce.
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; 

&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; I think it shows some real promise because it is completely
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; non-blocking. It uses Futures and CompletionHandlers to do the
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; dirty
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; work. A Grizzly filter is responsible for the actual
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; encoding/decoding of protobuf data. Right now, it will marshall
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; JSON
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; using Jackson if your content-type is set to
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; "application/json",
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; otherwise it uses JDK serialization to encode the entry (or
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; just
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; passes a String straight through, of course).
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; 

&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; Since it's a first pass, there is no real attempt to separate
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; the
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; protobuf stuff from the client. That's a v2 thing. Since I have
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; limited time, I'm interested in speed to completion of features
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; rather than good-looking and properly abstracted code. :)
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; 

&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; Thanks!
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; 

&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; Jon Brisbin
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; http//jbrisbin.com
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; 

&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; 

&gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; 
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; 
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

