---
title: "Re: riak_core data handoff/rebalance"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-06-30T14:27:45-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03886"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg03885"
author_name: "Joseph Blomstedt"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-06-30T14:27:45-07:00
---


The code you're looking for is the "should\_handoff" fun in riak\_core\_vnode.erl:
https://github.com/basho/riak\_core/blob/riak\_core-0.14.2/src/riak\_core\_vnode.erl

There is a timer in the vnodes that fires periodically, and the vnode
will check it's current ring to determine if it is still the owner for
the index it represents. If it's not the current owner, the vnode
initiates handoff to the current owner. This design allows handoff to
occur both due to ring changes (join/leave) as well as for hinted
handoff (eg. when a write destined for a node was sent to a secondary
node during a temporary partition/downtime, and is later handed off to
the real node).

-Joe

On Thu, Jun 30, 2011 at 3:04 PM, Joel Meyer  wrote:
&gt; I'm trying to understand when and how data handoff between nodes is
&gt; triggered in riak\_core. I was under the impression that data would be
&gt; shuffled when a new node joined the cluster or an existing node left the
&gt; cluster, but maybe that's not the case? It looks like joining a cluster is
&gt; accomplished by gossiping your ring with a node in the cluster that you wish
&gt; to join (riak\_core\_gossip:send\_ring(NodeInCluster, node())). Looking through
&gt; the code I don't see anywhere that a partitions data is transferred once an
&gt; updated ring is agreed upon. Leaving a cluster seems to be handled
&gt; similarly, but I don't see any handoff triggered in this case either. I must
&gt; be missing something obvious? I'm looking at tag riak\_core-0.14.2.
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; Joel
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

