---
title: "Re: Riakaws - AWS Deployment"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-04-22T12:47:55-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00129"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg00128"
author_name: "Alexander Sicular"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-04-22T12:47:55-07:00
---


I would also add the following to your app.config in the innostore section:

{open\_files, 100} %% Limit to 100 open file handles

I got that form Jon Meredith when I was having issues with the number
of fd's riak was opening. You should pick a number that's right for
you based on the number of buckets in your app. More buckets = more
inno files. Too many open files and your system goes kaboom.



On Thu, Apr 22, 2010 at 15:30, Matthew Heitzenroder
 wrote:
&gt; Interesting.... okay, well innostore wasn't ditching, but i'm making the
&gt; change anyhow. Thanks for your help Sean.
&gt; Matt
&gt;
&gt; On Apr 22, 2010, at 12:18 PM, Sean Cribbs wrote:
&gt;
&gt; If your node starts up and innostore doesn't crash, then it worked.  Newer
&gt; versions of innostore will bail early if SMP is not enabled.
&gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt; Developer Advocate
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; http://basho.com/
&gt; On Apr 22, 2010, at 1:51 PM, Matthew Heitzenroder wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Sean-
&gt; Thanks for the feedback.
&gt; Regarding -smp enable, I'm going to add that to the vm.args
&gt; Is there a way that I can verify my changed worked?
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; Matt
&gt;
&gt; On Apr 22, 2010, at 6:22 AM, Sean Cribbs wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Matt,
&gt; Good work! We have a couple of comments for you:
&gt; 1) "heart" is probably not the best way to keep your Riak nodes up - it has
&gt; a tendency to restart nodes that fail fatally, and doesn't behave well when
&gt; you want to shut down a node normally.  You might be better off with a
&gt; traditional monitoring tool like "monit" which can back off restarts and
&gt; notify you when a node is flapping.
&gt; 2) Make sure your configuration, either via editing vm.args or via the
&gt; ERL\_FLAGS environment variable, includes "-smp enable".  Innostore won't
&gt; work without it.
&gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt; Developer Advocate
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; http://basho.com/
&gt; On Apr 22, 2010, at 6:46 AM, Matthew Heitzenroder wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Hello riak-users
&gt; If you're an Amazon Web Services user, I'd really appreciate anyone who is
&gt; willing to review this:
&gt; http://github.com/roder/riakaws
&gt; Riakaws is just a simple way to deploy a Riak cluster in the Amazon cloud.
&gt; Thanks in advance for an feedback or pull requests.
&gt; Cheers,
&gt; Matt
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

