---
title: "Re: timeouts while rebalancing"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-12-21T10:08:11-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01833"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg01827"
author_name: "Dan Reverri"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-12-21T10:08:11-08:00
---


Hi Collin,

I would not expect keys to return not found even during handoff. An
individual vnode may return not found if the requested data has not been
transferred but the other replicas should be able to satisfy the quorum.

What values of N, R, and W are you using?

Thanks,
Dan

Daniel Reverri
Developer Advocate
Basho Technologies, Inc.
d...@basho.com


On Mon, Dec 20, 2010 at 5:18 PM, Colin Surprenant &lt;
colin.surpren...@gmail.com&gt; wrote:

&gt; Yup, same version.
&gt;
&gt; On Mon, Dec 20, 2010 at 7:58 PM, Alexander Sicular 
&gt; wrote:
&gt; &gt; Did you add the same version of riak to your 0.10.1 cluster? I wouldn't
&gt; mismatch...
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; On Dec 20, 2010, at 3:46 PM, Colin Surprenant wrote:
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; Hi,
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; Actually, they're not timeout error but Not Found errors for a bunch
&gt; &gt;&gt; of keys that have been stored without error while the cluster is
&gt; &gt;&gt; rebalancing.
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; Is it "normal" to see Not Found errors while the cluster is
&gt; &gt;&gt; rebalancing? If not, what is my problem here? Is it a problem to
&gt; &gt;&gt; insert new keys while the cluster is rebalancing?
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; Again, I cannot find any error report other that riak-admin failing
&gt; &gt;&gt; with a timeout as described below.
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; Any help/hints approciated, thanks!
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; Colin
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; On Mon, Dec 20, 2010 at 2:50 PM, Colin Surprenant
&gt; &gt;&gt;  wrote:
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; Hi,
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; I just added a 4th node in my 0.10.1 + innostore cluster and I am
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; seeing all kind of timeouts both for retrieving objects and trying to
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; execute riak-admin status which gives me:
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; RPC to 'r...@x.x.x' failed: {'EXIT',
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; {timeout,
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; {gen\_server2,call,
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; [riak\_kv\_stat,get\_stats]}}}
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; Also, the CPU load has seriously increased on the original 3 nodes.
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; The data rebalancing is quite slow.
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; I am not seeing anything wrong in the log files.
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; Is this an indication that something is going wrong?
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; Thanks,
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; Colin
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

