---
title: "Re: Big Changes in Riak Tip"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-04-14T10:48:10-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00038"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg00027"
author_name: "Jonathan Lee"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-04-14T10:48:10-07:00
---


Hello,

I'm having trouble building with the latest tip on OS X 10.6. Does 0.10
require Erlang R13B04?

$ make
./rebar get-deps
...
==&gt; riak\_kv (get-deps)
Pulling ebloom from {hg,"http://bitbucket.org/basho/ebloom","RELEASE\_2"}
real URL is http://bitbucket.org/basho/ebloom/
destination directory: ebloom
...
==&gt; ebloom (compile)
Compiling c\_src/ebloom\_nifs.cpp
c\_src/ebloom\_nifs.cpp:24: error: expected initializer before ‘\*’ token


Thanks,
Jonathan

On Tue, Apr 13, 2010 at 2:58 PM, Bryan Fink  wrote:

&gt; Hello, Riak users. We wanted to give you all a heads up that we have
&gt; just pulled a large changelog into the tip of the Riak repository. We
&gt; have been working on this list of changes privately, in order to cause
&gt; less confusion, as it covers a fairly major change, that was
&gt; experimental at first.
&gt;
&gt; The big change is that we have split the 'riak' Erlang application
&gt; into two cooperating applications: 'riak\_core' and 'riak\_kv'. This
&gt; has both forced us to untangle some code, making interfaces cleaner,
&gt; as well as provided us with the ability to implement new functionality
&gt; on top of the clustering tools that Riak provides, without hacking
&gt; around the needs of the key/value store.
&gt;
&gt; If you are interested in testing before the 0.10 release, please read
&gt; through the TRANSITION document included with the source. The most
&gt; important notes in there are the ones about changing your
&gt; configuration and ring file names.
&gt;
&gt; If you're looking for the last updates just before this large change,
&gt; please pull the revision tagged "pre-0.10".
&gt;
&gt; More details to come in the 0.10 release notes!
&gt;
&gt; -The Basho Riak Team
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

