---
title: "Re: riakkit, a python riak object mapper, has hit beta!"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-03-01T19:15:41-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06833"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06832"
author_name: "Shuhao Wu"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-03-01T19:15:41-08:00
---


Another thing I was considering is forking riak-python-client. Some of the
stuff in there could use some fixing as well, and maybe just take out the
core transports and such and plug that right into riakkit and skip the
notion of RiakObject all together as those API is also somewhat weird.
(such as add\_link and remove\_link)

Shuhao


On Thu, Mar 1, 2012 at 10:02 PM, Shuhao Wu  wrote:

&gt; Hi!
&gt;
&gt; First off, the code is \*LGPL\* licensed, not GPL. So you're free to put
&gt; this into any code you want, it's just that when you want to modify
&gt; riakkit, you have to release your modified version.
&gt;
&gt; I just went over your idea and it would be a valid solution to some of the
&gt; problems I'm having right now with my own projects with riakkit. When I
&gt; initially started writing riakkit, I needed something to do RAD with, which
&gt; would make sense to have an all-in-one, very simple to use framework,
&gt; rather than working with serialization and what not. However, now I'm
&gt; beginning to see problems in this approach when it comes to scalability as
&gt; I'm slowing moving out of the RAD phase. I haven't done anything as I have
&gt; not encountered any major issues yet (though I probably will).
&gt;
&gt; So here's what I'm thinking for the next branch ( I still have to maintain
&gt; the master branch due to some code i've written and need ): I'm going to
&gt; break riakkit into 2 pieces. The first piece is the underlying piece, which
&gt; will do what you said, serialize/deserialize objects, validation, track
&gt; relationships and what not, however, it doesn't load it those references up
&gt; nor does it try to accomplish everything all in one shot, and a RAD layer
&gt; that's compatible with the current API that will allow RAD to work with it,
&gt; but still reserve the flexibility of having that underlying API that's
&gt; relatively easy (as oppose to dead simple) to work with and not as messy as
&gt; what's going on right now.
&gt;
&gt; I do agree that the code is messy.. Most of the time it's me fixing bugs I
&gt; didn't anticipate as I go along and hacking everything into place..
&gt;
&gt; One thing I'm not too clear about is what you mean by "Track dependencies
&gt; between models". I'm not sure how you think I should go about approaching
&gt; this (which right now is a pretty big disaster.. though relatively stable)
&gt;
&gt; Cheers,
&gt;
&gt; Shuhao
&gt;
&gt; P.S. I don't want to go into the whole PEP8 discussion and 4 spaces vs
&gt; whatever.. I just like the 2 spaces and the style guide that Google uses.
&gt; Is that really a big deal if you're using it as a library?
&gt;
&gt; On Thu, Mar 1, 2012 at 9:35 PM, Andrey V. Martyanov wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi!
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Two things force me to avoid using Riakkit: the code is GPL licensed and
&gt;&gt; non pep8 compliant. So, I cannot fork it and make changes. The code needs
&gt;&gt; clean up, for example, json module is imported in document.py, but not
&gt;&gt; used. Riakkit has no conflict resolution logic, it's basically delegate the
&gt;&gt; work to underlying python client. If I'd like to implement my save method I
&gt;&gt; need to copy and rewrite more than 150 lines of code mess. What I think the
&gt;&gt; mapper should do:
&gt;&gt; 1. Serialize the objects to valid json;
&gt;&gt; 2. Deserialize the data back to class instances;
&gt;&gt; 3. Validate the fields data;
&gt;&gt; 4. Track dependencies between models;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Simple example using Riakkit-like syntax;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; class Post(Document):
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; bucket\_name = 'posts'
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; title = types.StringProperty(required=True)
&gt;&gt; content = types.StringProperty(required=True)
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; class Comment(Document):
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; bucket\_name = 'comments'
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; text = types.StringProperty(required=True)
&gt;&gt; post = types.IndexReferenceProperty(reference\_class=Post,
&gt;&gt; collection\_name='comments')
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; post = Post('title', 'content')
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; comment1 = ('comment1', post=post)
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; comment2 = ('comment2', post=post)
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; post.is\_valid()
&gt;&gt; True
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; post.serialize()
&gt;&gt; {
&gt;&gt; "key": "post\_key",
&gt;&gt; "title": "title",
&gt;&gt; "content": "content",
&gt;&gt; "comments": [
&gt;&gt; {
&gt;&gt; "key": "comment1\_key",
&gt;&gt; "text": "comment1"
&gt;&gt; },
&gt;&gt; {
&gt;&gt; "key": "comment2\_key",
&gt;&gt; "text": "comment2"
&gt;&gt; },
&gt;&gt; ]
&gt;&gt; }
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; post.store()
&gt;&gt; True
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; post = Post.get\_with\_key('post\_key')
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; post.comments
&gt;&gt; ['Post comment1', 'Post comment2']
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; post\_json\_data = get\_json\_data\_from\_request()
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; post = Post.deserialize(post\_json\_data)
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; post.title
&gt;&gt; 'title'
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; post.comments
&gt;&gt; ['Post comment1', 'Post comment2']
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Something like that.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Best regards,
&gt;&gt; Andrey Martyanov
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Fri, Mar 2, 2012 at 5:39 AM, Sean Carey  wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Keep up the great work Shuhao!
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; On Mar 1, 2012, at 7:36 PM, Shuhao Wu  wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Hey guys,
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; I started writing riakkit approximately 3 months ago and announced it
&gt;&gt;&gt; here. In case you missed that, Riakkit is basically an object mapper for
&gt;&gt;&gt; python and riak, which seemed to be lacking in at the time. Now that 3
&gt;&gt;&gt; months has passed and I have developed this project into much more than
&gt;&gt;&gt; what I had envisioned to begin with. It's currently also being used and
&gt;&gt;&gt; tested in a project of mine (web application) as well and functioning quite
&gt;&gt;&gt; nicely. I would say that currently this is the only object mapper that can
&gt;&gt;&gt; compete with their counterparts in other languages for Riak in Python,
&gt;&gt;&gt; although a lot of work still needs to be done before it could fully compete.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; So today I felt that riakkit is "stable" and "clean" enough to deserve
&gt;&gt;&gt; the first beta release. So I whipped up a website and it's released to
&gt;&gt;&gt; pypi. Here's (again), a demo (the full tutorial can be found on the links
&gt;&gt;&gt; below)
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; class User(Document):
&gt;&gt;&gt; client = riak.RiakClient()
&gt;&gt;&gt; bucket\_name = "users"
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; name = StringProperty(required=True)
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; user = User(name="foo")
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; user.save()
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; print user.name
&gt;&gt;&gt; foo
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; If anyone is interested, you can find the website here:
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://ultimatebuster.github.com/riakkit and the code at
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://github.com/ultimatebuster/riakkit
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Cheers!
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Shuhao
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

