---
title: "Re: InnoDB error"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-05-14T09:31:25-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00371"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg00370"
author_name: "Germain Maurice"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-05-14T09:31:25-07:00
---


These errors occur when a node came back to the cluster or on a joining 
a node to the cluster.
They never occur when i wrote datas in the bucket. The biggest data i 
put to a node had not exceeded 10MB, i write html pages in the bucket.


Grant, i'm testing Riak, so all of my datas are "test" datas :)
I have more than 1 600 000 docs that take more than 100GB space, only 
for information.


Le 14/05/10 17:52, Grant Schofield a écrit :

Are you writing a large amount of data to the node? What is the size of your 
write request?

The way to fix this would be to increase the number and size of the log files 
in your app.config. The relevant lines to add to the {innostore, []} section 
are:
{log\_files\_in\_group, 6}, % How many files you need — usually, 3&lt; 
 x&lt; 6
{log\_file\_size, 268435456}, % No bigger than 256MB — otherwise recovery 
takes too long

You probably have issues with your Innostore now because there us data that 
didn't make it it into the filesystem when the log was overwritten. I would 
recommend starting with a new data directory as well as moving your old Inno 
logs out of the way. If this data isn't test data we can work with you to dump 
and load the data using the innodump and innoload utilities.

Grant Schofield
Developer Advocate
Basho Technologies

On May 14, 2010, at 10:27 AM, Germain Maurice wrote:



Hi all,

Another question...

I think i understand what does it mean, but how can i change it ?
What are the consequences of this kind error ?




100513 1:13:21 InnoDB: ERROR: the age of the last checkpoint is 
140104147910808,
InnoDB: which exceeds the log group capacity 1.
InnoDB: If you are using big BLOB or TEXT rows, you must set the
InnoDB: combined size of log files at least 10 times bigger than the
InnoDB: largest such row.

Thank you for your answer.

Best regards,
Germain

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com





\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

