---
title: "Re: Announcing Riak 1.1 release candidate 2"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-02-09T19:05:32-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06573"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06572"
author_name: "Jeremiah Peschka"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-02-09T19:05:32-08:00
---


Are there any protocol changes for client developers to be aware of, or are
we safe?
---
Jeremiah Peschka
Managing Director, Brent Ozar PLF, LLC


On Thu, Feb 9, 2012 at 7:01 PM, Jared Morrow  wrote:

&gt; The next release candidate has been built and uploaded to our Downloads
&gt; page listed below. The RELEASE-NOTES at the link below has also been
&gt; updated with the latest fixes.
&gt;
&gt; Lastly, we are tentatively planning on releasing Riak 1.1 the week of
&gt; February 20th, so if you have some particular test cases you want to run
&gt; before we cut the final release, now is your chance!
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; Jared
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Feb 7, 2012, at 9:25 PM, Jared Morrow wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Riak Users,
&gt;
&gt; I am pleased to announce the availability of Riak 1.1.0 RC (release
&gt; candidate) 1. We are providing RC packages of 1.1 to the community like
&gt; we did with the last major release (Riak 1.0) in the hopes that you as a
&gt; community can offer us feedback before final release. Unlike 1.0 though,
&gt; we are planning the 1.1 release to be a shorter cycle from first RC to
&gt; final release (barring any major event or bug that is found with RC1
&gt; obviously). So, please download, install, abuse, and enjoy RC1 and let us
&gt; know what you think.
&gt;
&gt; Download from the downloads page http://basho.com/resources/downloads/
&gt; under 1.1 or CURRENT.
&gt;
&gt; An extremely rough initial draft of the 1.1 release notes is available
&gt; here: https://github.com/basho/riak/blob/master/RELEASE-NOTES.org
&gt; I assure you it will be filled out with actual descriptions of features
&gt; added by the time 1.1 ships.
&gt;
&gt; As always, thanks from the entire Basho team!
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

