---
title: "Re: default bucket settings"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-10-09T10:18:08-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08849"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg08848"
author_name: "Evan Vigil-McClanahan"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-10-09T10:18:08-07:00
---


The difference between w and dw is that for r, only the vnode needs to
reply that it's gotten the write. On dw, the vnode waits for its backend
to reply that it has sent the write to the disk. So with dw, you trade off
latency for a bit more safety.

On Tue, Oct 9, 2012 at 10:14 AM, kamiseq  wrote:

&gt; you know what, after another day of searching I ve found out that
&gt; (following http://wiki.basho.com/HTTP-Delete-Object.html)
&gt;
&gt; - rw - quorum for both operations (get and put) involved in deleting
&gt; an object (default is set at the bucket level)
&gt; - r - (read quorum) how many replicas need to agree when retrieving
&gt; the object
&gt; - pr - (primary read quorum) works like r but requires that the nodes
&gt; read from are not fallback nodes
&gt; - w - (write quorum) how many replicas to write to before returning a
&gt; successful response
&gt; - dw - (durable write quorum) how many replicas to commit to durable
&gt; storage before returning a successful response
&gt; - pw - (primary write quorum) how many replicas to commit to primary
&gt; nodes before returning a successful response
&gt;
&gt; why such description cannot be added to page about bucket configuration,
&gt; it is really weird to find it in delete object http API specification.
&gt;
&gt; still I dont get difference between w and dw but I guess it is not that
&gt; important for now
&gt; pozdrawiam
&gt; Paweł Kamiński
&gt;
&gt; kami...@gmail.com
&gt; pkaminski....@gmail.com
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On 9 October 2012 09:19, kamiseq  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; thanks,
&gt;&gt; I also visited that section but it deals only with n, r and w property in
&gt;&gt; general. and reading only about n, r and w it feels like you know what is
&gt;&gt; going on, and then you see dw, rw, pr and pw and googling doesn't bring
&gt;&gt; clear explanation, so you get more and more confused.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; (heh I know casing doesn't matter :)
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; pozdrawiam
&gt;&gt; Paweł Kamiński
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; kami...@gmail.com
&gt;&gt; pkaminski....@gmail.com
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On 9 October 2012 07:31, Martin Westergaard Lassen 
&gt;&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Hi Pawel
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; The "Concept" wiki page (
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://wiki.basho.com/Concepts.html#Reading%2C-Writing%2C-and-Updating-Data)
&gt;&gt;&gt; has a good introduction to the most important paramters. Casing doesn't
&gt;&gt;&gt; matter, so r=R.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; The Riak Handbook has a good and deep explanation of what those
&gt;&gt;&gt; parameters are http://riakhandbook.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; \*Martin Westergaard Lassen\*
&gt;&gt;&gt; \*Software Pilot\*
&gt;&gt;&gt; \*\* \*\*
&gt;&gt;&gt; Trifork A/S\*\*\*\*
&gt;&gt;&gt; Margrethepladsen 4 · 8000 Aarhus C. · Denmark\*\*\*\*
&gt;&gt;&gt; Mobile +45 31 12 10 59
&gt;&gt;&gt; \*\* \*\*
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Den 08/10/2012 kl. 22.56 skrev kamiseq :
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Im looking for explanation what exactly r, pr, w, dw, pw, rw stands for.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Im sorry if this was already posted but I cannot find anything on
&gt;&gt;&gt; that. I tried wiki.basho.com/Riak-Glossary.html,
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://wiki.basho.com/HTTP-API.html#Bucket-Operations,
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://wiki.basho.com/Buckets.html but it only describes N, R, W.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; do I understand correctly that W property is only considered when
&gt;&gt;&gt; updating value and for first store N value is used? or is it:
&gt;&gt;&gt; replicate data N times but return success if it was persisted to W
&gt;&gt;&gt; vnodes.
&gt;&gt;&gt; if DW is durable write then what W really means? can I get successful
&gt;&gt;&gt; response after write operation without object being persisted to
&gt;&gt;&gt; durable storage??
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; I must admit Im quite confused here.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; And second question, If I set r, pr, w, dw, pw, rw in app.config for
&gt;&gt;&gt; every configured node in cluster those values will not be added to
&gt;&gt;&gt; gossiped information, right?
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; pozdrawiam
&gt;&gt;&gt; Paweł Kamiński
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; kami...@gmail.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; pkaminski....@gmail.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&lt;&gt;\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

