---
title: "Re: Riak Search"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-08-24T01:20:32-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00943"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg00942"
author_name: "Felix Ritter"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-08-24T01:20:32-07:00
---


I think the question I posted a few days ago goes to the same
direction at the end.
Does anyone have some ideas here?
This was my original post:



since RIAK is primarily a key value store, I have to manage all
indexes on my own.
So what I do, for example, is to create a million address datasets in
RIAK, and then I create an additional dataset holding a simple index
for the addresses (index by city name for example).
That works so far, but is not perfect from my perspective.
One concern I have is, that the index itself is not distributed if
it's stored in one single key, and so cannot be processed in parallel.
So that's why I'm looking for a good way to work with distributed
indexes. Does anyone of you know a document etc that describes a best
practice?
I'm just thinking that I'm not the first person having this requirement :-)

Then, ideally, I would like to start a MapReduce job with the keys
holding the index, the following map phases would then work with the
keys/documents that came out of the first map phase.
Is it possible within a map function to lookup a dataset by its key
and pass this object to the next map phase then?
That would make things a bit easier, because then I can handle
everything within RIAK.

Thanks,
Felix

On Tue, Aug 24, 2010 at 9:58 AM, Nickolay Platonov  wrote:
&gt; Hey,
&gt;
&gt; Well, ok, just can't wait for such great addon to Riak..
&gt;
&gt; Nickolay
&gt;
&gt; On Mon, Aug 23, 2010 at 11:51 PM, Mark Phillips  wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hey Nickolay,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Tue, Aug 17, 2010 at 10:46 AM, Nickolay Platonov 
&gt;&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt; &gt; Hello,
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; Any information when the Riak Search will be publicly available?
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Sometimes development of a new product takes far less time than
&gt;&gt; expected. More often, however, it takes longer than expected, and Riak
&gt;&gt; Search is no exception. Trust me when I say that Basho and the Search
&gt;&gt; team are as excited to release the code as you are to get your hands
&gt;&gt; on it.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks for your patience.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Mark
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Community Manager
&gt;&gt; Basho Technologies
&gt;&gt; wiki.basho.com
&gt;&gt; twitter.com/pharkmillups
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

