---
title: "Re: Mysterious JavaScript MapReduce crashes and timeouts with 0.14.2"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-06-29T01:25:44-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03860"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg03821"
author_name: "Mathias Meyer"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-06-29T01:25:44-07:00
---



On Samstag, 25. Juni 2011 at 00:23, David Mitchell wrote:

&gt; Hi Mathias,
&gt; 
&gt; Thank you for responding, and give me things to try.
&gt; 
&gt; I am testing Raik using a hypervisor, so each node only has one CPU and 1.5 
&gt; GB of RAM. I have 222,526 total keys stored.
&gt; 
I'd suggest testing your setup on something other than a hypervisor'd setup of 
virtual machines to get a good picture of performance, especially at this 
memory and machine size.
&gt; Correct me if I am mistaken, but if we want to use Riak for data processing 
&gt; via MapReduce, we should abandon JavaScript and opt for Erlang. This is my 
&gt; first take away. Second, use Riak Search rather than key filters to do range 
&gt; queries.
&gt; 
Considering your key filter setup, yes, you should be using Riak Search instead 
to prefilter your MapReduce inputs. As for MapReduce itself, it's well worth 
looking into Erlang, because it avoids a lot of overhead involved with 
JavaScript MapReduce. I wouldn't hold it generally true to always go for Erlang 
for more intensive MapReducing, it just depends on how often you run your 
queries and what execution speed expectations you have of them. In your case 
I'd say it'd be well worth looking into Erlang as an alternative.

Mathias Meyer
Developer Advocate, Basho Technologies




\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

