---
title: "Re: how does riak scale?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-04-12T11:57:32-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00007"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg00005"
author_name: "Sean Cribbs"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-04-12T11:57:32-07:00
---


A number of points:

\* The replication factor (N) \* the total original data size = total data size 
stored in the cluster. For example, if N=3, then you have 300GB of data stored 
across the cluster. If you had 6 nodes, this would be about 50GB per node.
\* Riak can be optimized in your setup for GET speed, but in general it is 
optimized for fault-tolerance and availability. Even in the best of 
conditions, it will not perform as optimally as a web server reading static 
files off the local disk.
\* The replication factor will affect both reads and writes. If your cluster 
size is larger than your N, you should see increased throughput as you add 
nodes.

Sean Cribbs 
Developer Advocate
Basho Technologies, Inc.
http://basho.com/

On Apr 12, 2010, at 1:19 PM, TuX RaceR wrote:

&gt; Hello Riak users!
&gt; 
&gt; Let me first present on a simple example what I can see as an application 
&gt; that 'scales':
&gt; If a have a web server (e.g apache) serving 100Gb of files and I get 4000 GET 
&gt; per seconds, one way to scale the application is to copy (rsync) the 100Gb to 
&gt; another web server and balance the load on the two nodes: that way, globally 
&gt; my cluster of 2 nodes can serve 2 x 4000 GET per seconds.
&gt; I can say that my architecture scales as if I multiply by 2 the number of 
&gt; nodes, then I can multiply by 2 the number of requests that the system can 
&gt; handle (per second).
&gt; 
&gt; With Riak, I am not sure to understand how the scaling works. Are we speaking 
&gt; about a global 'key GET' rate (request per second) that scales with the 
&gt; number of nodes added?
&gt; My web server example above also assumed that all the data (100Gb) could fit 
&gt; into a single node. As I understand Riak could be used to serve data too 
&gt; large to fit on one disk. So maybe the scaling is about the data itself: a 
&gt; web client (browser) will not see a speed difference in the response from a 
&gt; riak cluster serving K keys with N nodes and another riak cluster serving 2\*K 
&gt; keys on 2\*N nodes.
&gt; 
&gt; Also the number of replicas role in scaling is not clear to me: it seems to 
&gt; me that having a lot of replicas speeds up reads but slows down writes. Is 
&gt; there a simple scaling law for this?
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks in advance,
&gt; 
&gt; TuX
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

