---
title: "Re: Cluster setup"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-12-10T11:43:19-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg09508"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg09507"
author_name: "Kevin Burton"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-12-10T11:43:19-08:00
---


The first node started up without error (/etc/init.d/riak start). But nodes 2 
and 3 failed to start. I looked in /var/log/riak/error.log and found about 
three lines with {error,eaddrnotavail} in the error message. What does this 
mean? Is there a work around? I don't understand why this address is "not 
available". 'ifconfig' confirms that this is the machines address.

On Dec 10, 2012, at 12:33 PM, Jared Morrow  wrote:

&gt; The init.d script for RIak is included in the RPM. If you list the file 
&gt; contained in the RPM do you see the init.d/riak script? If you do have that 
&gt; file, you'll need to add the rc.d scripts by hand to auto-start / auto-stop 
&gt; on startup / shutdown or use a tool like `chkconfig` 
&gt; http://linux.die.net/man/8/chkconfig
&gt; 
&gt; -Jared
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Mon, Dec 10, 2012 at 11:17 AM, Kevin Burton  
&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt; I did these steps and while I see that Riak has been added to the system 
&gt;&gt; files (like /etc/riak). I don't see any links to auto start like in init.d. 
&gt;&gt; Do I add these links manually?
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On Dec 10, 2012, at 11:32 AM, Jared Morrow  wrote:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; If you are looking install and /etc/init.d support, you should really just 
&gt;&gt;&gt; be installing the packages. 
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://s3.amazonaws.com/downloads.basho.com/riak/CURRENT/rhel/6/riak-1.2.1-1.el6.x86\_64.rpm
&gt;&gt;&gt; is the package for Centos 6 found here 
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://basho.com/resources/downloads/. Building from source is there for 
&gt;&gt;&gt; those who need a feature not currently in a release, want to make additions 
&gt;&gt;&gt; to Riak, or are on an unsupported platform.
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; -Jared
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; On Mon, Dec 10, 2012 at 10:25 AM,  wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; I am looking at 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/cookbooks/Basic-Cluster-Setup/ which 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; provides me with a lot of information. But I have one question. I have a 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; source distribution and I have already done 'make rel'. Once I have 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; performed all of the steps outlined in setting up a cluster how do I make 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; sure that this configuration is restored when the machine reboots. I am 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; assuming that it will involve something with /etc/init.d. Is there 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; something like 'make install' that would shorten the process? How is the 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; cluster information persisted so that each node will join the cluster when 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; the respective machine comes up after a reboot? Thank you.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

