---
title: "Re: Updating links and metadata only?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-11-23T10:07:18-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01610"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg01608"
author_name: "Dan Reverri"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-11-23T10:07:18-08:00
---


Hi Jon,

Unfortunately, it is not possible to update just the metadata of the object;
updating the entire object is required. One possible alternative is to store
the metadata and body as two separate objects which would allow you to
update the metadata without resending the body.

Some initial thoughts related to this issue have been documented in bug 7:
https://issues.basho.com/show\_bug.cgi?id=7

Thanks,
Dan

Daniel Reverri
Developer Advocate
Basho Technologies, Inc.
d...@basho.com


On Tue, Nov 23, 2010 at 7:47 AM, Jon Brisbin  wrote:

&gt; Is it possible to update only headers on an object?
&gt;
&gt; In writing the Riak spring-data support, I'm having to update objects in
&gt; their entirety to manage relationships between them. In one operation I
&gt; might create an object and in another, I might add a link to it (after I've
&gt; saved the new child object). I'm sending the body content back when I add
&gt; the links or set the metadata, but this seems like overkill (and fragile).
&gt; Is there a way to set only headers on an object? I'd like to just add a Link
&gt; header without having to process all the existing Link headers, throwing out
&gt; any I don't care about (like rel="up", et al), add my new Link, then put all
&gt; that stuff back into the store.
&gt;
&gt; If this capability doesn't exist, is there a way I can write a plugin to
&gt; implement it? Or would it require hacking Riak core?
&gt;
&gt; Or is there a better way entirely?
&gt;
&gt; Thanks!
&gt;
&gt; J. Brisbin
&gt; http://jbrisbin.com/
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

