---
title: "Re: Bucket and Post commit hook"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-08-15T22:22:24-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00890"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg00888"
author_name: "Senthilkumar Peelikkampatti"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-08-15T22:22:24-07:00
---


Alexander,
 Thanks and I am aware of that. But when bucket get dynamically created
and you don't know when because as and when you add document it will be
brought into life, but at what point you would create properties for those
buckets especially post\_commit\_hook? for me I need it from first doc. I
found one way to do is using app.config but if Riak informs when first
document bucket is brought into life I can also set post\_commit hook for
that particular bucket. whatever set in app.config is global and not
specific to specific buckets but this is the story. I need post commit to
be live for from first document to do something else.

Thanks,
Senthil


On Sun, Aug 15, 2010 at 9:24 PM, Senthilkumar Peelikkampatti &lt;
senthilkumar.peelikkampa...@gmail.com&gt; wrote:

&gt; I am having a situation where buckets gets created dynamically and I want
&gt; to attach post commit hook to it. Since it is part of bucket properties, how
&gt; to deal with when I set bucket properties? Since bucket is kind of virtual
&gt; and got deleted when no documents in it and created when first document is
&gt; put. Is there a way to find out when first time bucket is created? If I
&gt; know, I can attach once post hook properties. Or is that part of app.config
&gt; and can be set as part of config properties?
&gt; Please provide your thoughts.
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Regards,
&gt; Senthilkumar,
&gt;
&gt;


-- 
Regards,
Senthilkumar Peelikkampatti,
http://pmsenthilkumar.blogspot.com/
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

