---
title: "Re: Riak KV ETS Backend?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-06-02T09:59:31-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03531"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg03432"
author_name: "Mark Phillips"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-06-02T09:59:31-07:00
---


Hey Jordan,

To address a few of your questions:

While it's not the most optimal memory-only backend, ETS is certainly
usable in production. That said, if it runs out of gas on you at
larger scales, it wouldn't be that hard to write a better one using
the NIF interface.

Hope that helps.

Mark

On Thu, May 26, 2011 at 11:15 AM, Jordan West  wrote:
&gt; Hi all,
&gt; I'm posting to the list for the first time after talking with Mark
&gt; (ironically, at MongoSF the other day), about a use-case I'm considering
&gt; Riak for. Quickly, I should probably say I've only played with Riak on a
&gt; side project or two, and dabbled with Riak Core thanks to the new GitHub
&gt; blog. Part of the reason I'm writing the list is to determine if for my
&gt; use-case its worth investing significant time learning and prototyping some
&gt; possible implementations with Riak(-Core). Anyways, on to the question:
&gt; Is the ETS Backend in the riak\_kv repo something maintained and endorsed for
&gt; use by the Basho team? I have a dataset which is well suited for a k/v store
&gt; and needs to be eventually consistent across a cluster of Erlang nodes. Riak
&gt; crossed my mind because of those reasons. Also, being able to embed it into
&gt; my application like Mnesia is a plus. However, I could care less in this
&gt; case about losing data. The data is ephemeral anyways as its a map of a
&gt; string assigned per connection to a couple erlang process ids, and hence I
&gt; want to store it in-memory (also want it in memory for performance reasons).
&gt; This data is very read-heavy, but must be available for writes or new
&gt; connections will begin to fail. I know this is not a typical use for Riak,
&gt; since one of its most touted benefits is not losing data but would it be too
&gt; far of a stretch to use Riak as an eventually consistent, in-memory
&gt; key-value store embedded into an Erlang application? If not, I figure this
&gt; is something I could build with Riak Core. Does anyone know if there already
&gt; is a OSS project I could contribute to instead of starting from scratch in
&gt; that case?
&gt; Thanks for your help,
&gt; Jordan West
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

