---
title: "Re: Cannot Install Riak"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-06-21T11:52:24-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07740"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg07739"
author_name: "Clinton Shryock"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-06-21T11:52:24-07:00
---


Can you detail or post any links to your solution? Someone may come across this 
thread in the future with a similar problem.

+Clint

On Jun 21, 2012, at 1:28 PM, Nick Tune wrote:

&gt; Hahah would you believe it!!!
&gt; 
&gt; I just did a bit of googling to fix that problem and it worked.
&gt; 
&gt; I got 4 nodes running on my home machine really easy.
&gt; 
&gt; Finally I can wind-down for the day. 
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks guys
&gt; 
&gt; On Thu, Jun 21, 2012 at 7:13 PM, Nick Tune  wrote:
&gt; Ok it is definitely one of those days. I've come home and tried to install on 
&gt; my home pc. And now I get this error:
&gt; 
&gt; Compiled src/etop\_txt.erl
&gt; ==&gt; rel (generate)
&gt; ERROR: Unable to generate spec: read file info 
&gt; /usr/lib/erlang/man/man1/precat.1 failed
&gt; make: \*\*\* [rel] Error 1
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks for all your help. I think I'll just come back to riak another day 
&gt; once my mind is cleared of this disaster.
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Thu, Jun 21, 2012 at 6:27 PM, Swinney, Austin  wrote:
&gt; Hey Nick,
&gt; 
&gt; Not solving your problem, but I known the 
&gt; excited-why-wont-this-work-right-now sentiment. I had a riak cluster up and 
&gt; running in very little time using Centos 5.6 and the rpm's from basho 
&gt; (riak-1.1.1-1.el5.x86\_64.rpm). No errors, and as I recall, no requirements. 
&gt; Adding addition nodes is no time at all. But then, my stuff is on ec2 using:
&gt; 
&gt; RightImage\_CentOS\_5.6\_x64\_v5.6.35 (ami-991adcf0)
&gt; 
&gt; Best of luck,
&gt; 
&gt; Austin
&gt; 
&gt; On Jun 21, 2012, at 12:55 PM, Nick Tune wrote:
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Now I've got an ubuntu VM and I'm getting this error:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Command 'generate' not understood or not applicable
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On Thu, Jun 21, 2012 at 5:48 PM, Nick Tune  wrote:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; ---------- Forwarded message ----------
&gt;&gt; From: Nick Tune 
&gt;&gt; Date: Thu, Jun 21, 2012 at 5:25 PM
&gt;&gt; Subject: Re: Cannot Install Riak
&gt;&gt; To: Bogunov 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Hello,
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Thanks for the help. I made some progress and I got it working using the 
&gt;&gt; 1.1.2 build.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; But I wanted to try multiple nodes on local machine which requires a build 
&gt;&gt; from source. Now I'm getting more issues.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Please see here: 
&gt;&gt; http://stackoverflow.com/questions/11139149/escript-riak-1-1-2-rel-riak-erts-5-8-5-bin-nodetool
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Thanks for your time. Sorry if I sound moody. This just annoyed me because I 
&gt;&gt; was so excited to play with riak and erlang. ah well - such is life.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On Thu, Jun 21, 2012 at 5:23 PM, Bogunov  wrote:
&gt;&gt; Its possible what you don`t have one of required libraries, it seems you 
&gt;&gt; are missing something from protobuf requirements, try building from scratch 
&gt;&gt; manually.
&gt;&gt; just cd to protobuff dir and ./configure and make.
&gt;&gt; 21.06.2012 19:30 пользователь "Nick Tune"  написал:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; After pulling down riak from get, I get the following error when running 
&gt;&gt; &gt; make rel:
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; ./rebar compile generate
&gt;&gt; &gt; ==&gt; cluster\_info (compile)
&gt;&gt; &gt; ==&gt; lager (compile)
&gt;&gt; &gt; ==&gt; poolboy (compile)
&gt;&gt; &gt; ==&gt; protobuffs (compile)
&gt;&gt; &gt; make: \*\*\* [rel] Error 1
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; I've had an awful experience getting riak setup. I've wasted two hours 
&gt;&gt; &gt; messing around and it still doesn't work. Please improve the experience 
&gt;&gt; &gt; for other users. 
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

