---
title: "Re: Basho Switching to git/GitHub for Riak Development"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-11-11T19:52:10-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01526"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg01372"
author_name: "Dmitry Demeshchuk"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-11-11T19:52:10-08:00
---


Yay!

Congratulations, guys! That's the moment I've been waiting for like a half year!

On Mon, Oct 25, 2010 at 6:57 PM, Mark Phillips  wrote:
&gt; Hey All,
&gt;
&gt; Mark here.
&gt;
&gt; As of this morning the Basho Development Team has switched to using
&gt; git and GitHub for the development of Riak and all other Basho
&gt; software.  Up until now we have used hg/Bitbucket and mirrored all
&gt; repos over to github.com/basho. That is now reversed, and the mirror
&gt; now points bitbucket.com/basho.
&gt;
&gt; Why? There are several reasons, the primary of which is that GitHub,
&gt; the application, lends itself to more collaboration when developing
&gt; open source software. Again, this was a decision made on the basis of
&gt; community development; technically-speaking we were satisfied with
&gt; what Bitbucket offered.
&gt;
&gt; I'll be writing a blog post that will appear in about a week or so
&gt; with some more details on why we made the switch. If you have any
&gt; questions between now and then, don't hesitate to ask.
&gt;
&gt; One issue that some of you might run into: building Riak will now
&gt; require having git installed. If you don't have it, you can download
&gt; it here ---&gt; http://git-scm.com/
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt;
&gt; Mark
&gt;
&gt; Community Manager
&gt; Basho Technologies
&gt; wiki.basho.com
&gt; twitter.com/pharkmillups
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;



-- 
Best regards,
Dmitry Demeshchuk

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

