---
title: "Re: Fw: Issue with Riak Install from Source under SUSE SLES 11 SP11	Version S390 / Problem solved"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-05-06T20:18:48-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07390"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg07347"
author_name: "Nobuhiro Iwamatsu"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-05-06T20:18:48-07:00
---


Hi, all.

These patches are still offered only by Debian.
I want these to be taken into upstream.
Could you ask of a develdb developer and get also from you so that
other architecture can use leveldb?

Best regards,
 Nobuhiro

2012/4/30 :
&gt; Dear colleagues,
&gt;
&gt; Problem solved!
&gt;
&gt; To give you a current feedback about the status of the port. I've succeed to
&gt; ported the RIAK database under the IBM mainframe system z model E114 running
&gt; it under the Linux SUSE SLES 11 SP1. I was very happy to find a post from
&gt; Mr. Nobuhiro Iwamatsu (Debian Linux Engineer) who described a fix for the
&gt; module atomic\_pointer.h to reconize the S390 architecture (possibly also the
&gt; Power7). I suggest to Basho to include this fix into the latest .github
&gt; source distribution.
&gt;
&gt;  I'v applied those changes to the module and the executable now was
&gt; successfully built.. I already did some testing with the Python and Java
&gt; clients , both are working perfectly with a few samples from the Basho wiki.
&gt;
&gt; First of all, my big thanks for the great support from the Erlang user
&gt; group, as well as the Riak user group that both helped me to quickly fix
&gt; those porting issues.
&gt; Regards,
&gt; Claude
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;
&gt; Dear colleagues,
&gt;
&gt; Thanks for the quick replies in usergroup.
&gt;
&gt; I've reinstalled the "curl" and "expat" packages both from its source and
&gt; rebuilt the "git" tool using the:
&gt;
&gt; ./configure --with-curl --with-expat
&gt;
&gt; ps .. yes, for Suse it must be done from source.
&gt;
&gt; As Jared pointed below, by changing the git protocol to "http://" it solved
&gt; the issue and the "leveldb" package was successfully downloaded.
&gt; This is a good step forwards.
&gt;
&gt; During the build and a few steps later I got another error message telling:
&gt;  "Please implement AtomicPointer for this platform"
&gt;
&gt; HEAD is now at 14478f1... Rework compaction scoring to ensure L1 doesn't
&gt; exceed the max bytes on that level
&gt; make[1]: Entering directory
&gt; `/opt/riak/riak-1.1.2/deps/eleveldb/c\_src/leveldb'
&gt; c++  -fPIC -fPIC -I /opt/riak/riak-1.1.2/deps/eleveldb/c\_src/system/include
&gt; -c -I. -I./include -fno-builtin-memcmp -DLEVELDB\_PLATFORM\_POSIX -pthread
&gt; -DOS\_LINUX -O2 -DNDEBUG        -DSNAPPY db/builder.cc -o db/builder.o
&gt; In file included from ./port/port\_posix.h:28,
&gt;                  from ./port/port.h:14,
&gt;                  from ./db/filename.h:14,
&gt;                  from db/builder.cc:7:
&gt; ./port/atomic\_pointer.h:133:2: error: #error Please implement AtomicPointer
&gt; for this platform.
&gt; make[1]: \*\*\* [db/builder.o] Error 1
&gt; make[1]: Leaving directory
&gt; `/opt/riak/riak-1.1.2/deps/eleveldb/c\_src/leveldb'
&gt; ERROR: Command [compile] failed!
&gt; make: \*\*\* [rel] Error 1
&gt;
&gt; Any idea how to fix this error?  Any dependency with other packages?
&gt;
&gt; Thanks in advance for your support.
&gt;
&gt; Regards,
&gt; Claude
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Claude Falbriard
&gt; Certified IT Specialist L2 - Middleware
&gt; AMS Hortolândia / SP - Brazil
&gt; phone:    +55 19 9837 0789
&gt; cell:         +55 13 8117 3316
&gt; e-mail:    clau...@br.ibm.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; From:        Jared Morrow 
&gt; To:        clau...@br.ibm.com
&gt; Cc:        riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; Date:        28/04/2012 01:17
&gt; Subject:        Re: Issue with Riak Install from Source under SUSE SLES 11
&gt; SP11 Version S390
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Claude,
&gt;
&gt; The issue is not in the rebar.config file for eleveldb, but in a file that
&gt; fetches the original C++ source for leveldb.   To fix your issue, simply
&gt; unpack the riak source as you already did then:
&gt;
&gt; $ cd deps/eleveldb
&gt;
&gt; And then make the following changes to 'c\_src/build\_deps.sh':
&gt;
&gt; --- c\_src/build\_deps.sh.orig 2012-04-27 22:06:31.000000000 -0600
&gt; +++ c\_src/build\_deps.sh 2012-04-27 22:07:49.000000000 -0600
&gt; @@ -37,7 +37,7 @@
&gt;          export LD\_LIBRARY\_PATH="$BASEDIR/system/lib:$LD\_LIBRARY\_PATH"
&gt;
&gt;          if [ ! -d leveldb ]; then
&gt; -            git clone git://github.com/basho/leveldb
&gt; +            git clone http://github.com/basho/leveldb
&gt;              (cd leveldb && git checkout $LEVELDB\_VSN)
&gt;          fi
&gt;
&gt; Then return to the top-level source directory for Riak and run 'make' and
&gt; things should be better.
&gt;
&gt; -Jared
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Apr 27, 2012, at 12:31 PM, clau...@br.ibm.com wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Dear colleagues,
&gt;
&gt; Trying to install the RIAK package under a  SUSE SLES 11 SP11 Version S390.
&gt; I've downloaded the .tar.gz install file from the BASHO site. First I've
&gt; installed the Erlang package with the --with-ssl option and recompiled the
&gt; openssl package with the "shared" option, as requested by the Erlang
&gt; procedure.
&gt;
&gt; Using the "make rel" command, I see a successful build running on the
&gt; screen, until a point where the install tries to connect to the GITHUB,
&gt; throwing an error like this:
&gt;
&gt; test -z "/opt/riak/riak-1.1.2/deps/eleveldb/c\_src/system/share/doc/snappy"
&gt; || /bin/mkdir -p
&gt; "/opt/riak/riak-1.1.2/deps/eleveldb/c\_src/system/share/doc/snappy"
&gt; /usr/bin/install -c -m 644 ChangeLog COPYING INSTALL NEWS README
&gt; format\_description.txt
&gt; '/opt/riak/riak-1.1.2/deps/eleveldb/c\_src/system/share/doc/snappy'
&gt; test -z "/opt/riak/riak-1.1.2/deps/eleveldb/c\_src/system/include" ||
&gt; /bin/mkdir -p "/opt/riak/riak-1.1.2/deps/eleveldb/c\_src/system/include"
&gt; /usr/bin/install -c -m 644 snappy.h snappy-sinksource.h
&gt; snappy-stubs-public.h snappy-c.h
&gt; '/opt/riak/riak-1.1.2/deps/eleveldb/c\_src/system/include'
&gt; make[2]: Leaving directory
&gt; `/opt/riak/riak-1.1.2/deps/eleveldb/c\_src/snappy-1.0.4'
&gt; make[1]: Leaving directory
&gt; `/opt/riak/riak-1.1.2/deps/eleveldb/c\_src/snappy-1.0.4'
&gt;
&gt; fatal: unable to connect to github.com:
&gt; github.com[0: 207.97.227.239]: errno=Connection refused
&gt;
&gt; Cloning into 'leveldb'...
&gt; ERROR: Command [compile] failed!
&gt; make: \*\*\* [rel] Error 1
&gt;
&gt; The riak executable was not yet created under the /bin.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Question:
&gt; --------------
&gt; Is there a way to avoid a connect to GITHUB during the package build from
&gt; source, or could you give me a pointer what is causing the connection to be
&gt; refused, as our firewall is configured for outgoing HTTP connections (which
&gt; port and protocol does it use?).
&gt;
&gt; Thanks in advance for your feedback and support.
&gt;
&gt; Regards,
&gt; Claude
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Claude Falbriard
&gt; Certified IT Specialist L2 - Middleware
&gt; AMS Hortolândia / SP - Brazil
&gt; phone:    +55 19 9837 0789
&gt; cell:         +55 13 8117 3316
&gt; e-mail:    clau...@br.ibm.com
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;



-- 
Nobuhiro Iwamatsu
   iwamatsu at {nigauri.org / debian.org}
   GPG ID: 40AD1FA6

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

