---
title: "Re: Riak async PB client based on Grizzly"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-06-22T04:33:11-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03775"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg03771"
author_name: "Jon Brisbin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-06-22T04:33:11-07:00
---


I should have thought of that before. It would have saved me some time. :) 
There's several things in there I can use to help (like RiakResponse, 
IRiakObject, etc...). 

The only thing I would say is that I was wanting to return Futures for 
everything, rather than the responses themselves (and/or take a callback) . 
Maybe introduce a RiakResponseCallback based on the CompletionHandler 
(success/failed/error, etc...) and also have an RawAsyncClient that returns 
Future and has a void method version that takes said 
RiakResponseCallback? The synchronous client can just call get() on everything. 

Thanks! 

Jon Brisbin 
http//jbrisbin.com 

----- Original Message -----

&gt; From: "Russell Brown" 
&gt; To: "Jon Brisbin" 
&gt; Cc: "riak-users Users" 
&gt; Sent: Wednesday, June 22, 2011 2:27:17 AM
&gt; Subject: Re: Riak async PB client based on Grizzly

&gt; Hey Jon,
&gt; Any chance you want to implement the RawClient interface (
&gt; https://github.com/basho/riak-java-client/blob/master/src/main/java/com/basho/riak/client/raw/RawClient.java
&gt; ) from the basho riak-java-client library? That way your client can
&gt; be swapped straight into the basho lib?

&gt; If not, let me know when you get a repo up on github and I'll write
&gt; an adapter so that the basho riak-java-client can make use of your
&gt; Grizzly client, which I guess means I'll pitch in a little (time
&gt; permitting) to help shape the Grizzly client so it is RawClient
&gt; shaped.

&gt; Cheers

&gt; Russell

&gt; On 21 Jun 2011, at 17:58, Jon Brisbin wrote:

&gt; &gt; I'm trying to get my feet wet with Grizzly on another project, so
&gt; &gt; I've been spending some late(ish) nights also working on a
&gt; &gt; Grizzly-based asynchronous PB client for Riak. I'm dropping all the
&gt; &gt; way down to the protobuf level and using Grizzly's NIO abstractions
&gt; &gt; to implement a completely non-blocking client. I'm writing the
&gt; &gt; low-level stuff in Java and I'd really like to build a Scala layer
&gt; &gt; on top of this, which uses the nice Scala idioms (operators, case
&gt; &gt; classes, etc...). But I can't write code as fast in Scala as I can
&gt; &gt; in Java and some of the Java APIs inside Grizzly aren't all that
&gt; &gt; Scala-friendly and make the code pretty ugly. I figured it would be
&gt; &gt; better to implement a fairly low-level PB client in Java and flesh
&gt; &gt; out the user-facing API in Scala and/or Java.
&gt; 

&gt; &gt; My question is basically, if I seed this project on GitHub with
&gt; &gt; what
&gt; &gt; I've got so far, would anyone else be interested in helping
&gt; &gt; complete
&gt; &gt; it? I'm just working on this after my other Grizzly work, so I
&gt; &gt; can't
&gt; &gt; devote full time to it. It might take me a little while to
&gt; &gt; implement
&gt; &gt; things like links and mapreduce.
&gt; 

&gt; &gt; I think it shows some real promise because it is completely
&gt; &gt; non-blocking. It uses Futures and CompletionHandlers to do the
&gt; &gt; dirty
&gt; &gt; work. A Grizzly filter is responsible for the actual
&gt; &gt; encoding/decoding of protobuf data. Right now, it will marshall
&gt; &gt; JSON
&gt; &gt; using Jackson if your content-type is set to "application/json",
&gt; &gt; otherwise it uses JDK serialization to encode the entry (or just
&gt; &gt; passes a String straight through, of course).
&gt; 

&gt; &gt; Since it's a first pass, there is no real attempt to separate the
&gt; &gt; protobuf stuff from the client. That's a v2 thing. Since I have
&gt; &gt; limited time, I'm interested in speed to completion of features
&gt; &gt; rather than good-looking and properly abstracted code. :)
&gt; 

&gt; &gt; Thanks!
&gt; 

&gt; &gt; Jon Brisbin
&gt; 
&gt; &gt; http//jbrisbin.com
&gt; 

&gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; 
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; 
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

