---
title: "Re: Question about security"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-01-12T11:00:43-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01963"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg01961"
author_name: "Jérôme Verstrynge"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-01-12T11:00:43-08:00
---



On 12/01/2011 7:17, Gary Smith wrote:

If the answer to the above question is no, then how can one secure a
Riak system properly?

Put an apache (or whatever) server in front and proxy the requests accordingly 
and setup the security through the underlying web service.

You -&gt; [ apache -&gt; riak ] (where [] is the box).

Or

You -&gt; apache -&gt; riak (where riak only allows requests from the apache server 
via the firewall on the riak server -- such as iptables)

Thanks.

In fact, I am planning to run a GWT application on Tomcat. Since it may 
grow beyond a single server's capacity (in terms of connections & 
users), I must implement some load balancing solution too. I also want 
minimum hassle regarding replications, which Riak seems to provide.


I want to be able to add/remove nodes as easily as possible. The system 
should be able to support the failure of nodes too.


I am starting to think about the following:

Users -&gt; [ Apache + load balance ] -&gt; [ Tomcat 1 -&gt; Riak 1 ]
 -&gt; [ Tomcat 
2 -&gt; Riak 2 ]
 -&gt; [ Tomcat 
3 -&gt; Riak 3 ]
 -&gt; [ Tomcat 
4 -&gt; Riak 4 ]

 -&gt; ...

Only the Apache machine would have access to the TC + Riak machines 
(firewalll filtering on IP). The TC + Riak machines would also only give 
access to other TC + Riak machines to let Riak operate.


Does this make sense? Has anyone tried this with Riak? Is there a better 
solution?


That last issue I need to solve is if the Apache server fails... but 
this is another topic!


Thanks,

Jérôme

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

