---
title: "Re: Riak + Webmachine"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-07-20T00:13:06-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00748"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg00747"
author_name: "Bob Ippolito"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-07-20T00:13:06-07:00
---


Note that you may have to redesign your app a bit to use the current
Erlang PBC client since it lacks any sort of timeout capability in the
API, and it exits when there is an error rather than reporting errors
in some way that can be caught in a try or case. I've heard there are
some revisions in the works but I haven't seen a new API yet.

On Mon, Jul 19, 2010 at 11:25 PM, Dan Reverri  wrote:
&gt; Hi Kenny,
&gt; I would recommend using the Erlang PBC client rather than the native Erlang
&gt; client. The performance is comparable and it reduces coupling between your
&gt; code and Riak.
&gt; The following rebar.config option will pull in the PBC client:
&gt;   {riakc, ".\*", {hg, "http://bitbucket.org/basho/riak-erlang-client",
&gt; "tip"}},
&gt; You can find documentation here:
&gt; https://wiki.basho.com/display/RIAK/Erlang+Client+PBC
&gt; You can ignore the "./rebar install" part in the Overview section since you
&gt; will be including it as a dependency in your application.
&gt; Let me know if you have any questions.
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; Dan
&gt; Daniel Reverri
&gt; Developer Advocate
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; d...@basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Sun, Jul 18, 2010 at 8:01 AM, Kenny Stone  wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hello,
&gt;&gt; I had an earlier project using webmachine.  I added the riak dependencies,
&gt;&gt; which also use webmachine, and now my existing webmachine code is broken.
&gt;&gt; I found a related blog post about this issue, but things are still not
&gt;&gt; working despite the dispatch\_list looking correct at runtime.  I can take
&gt;&gt; out the riak apps from my rel file to get the original functionality working
&gt;&gt; (but riak not working obviously).
&gt;&gt; Any ideas how I can troubleshoot?
&gt;&gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt; Kenny
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

