---
title: "Re: Announcing Riak Pipe (BETA)"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-06-13T18:41:21-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03687"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg03685"
author_name: "Antonio Rohman Fernandez"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-06-13T18:41:21-07:00
---


&gt; Riak Pipe on the other hand, could be used to build jobs like you would in 
&gt; Hadoop

Can a same job be performed by several servers distributed as a
cluster? or only 1 Pipe server will do the job and Riak KV will be the
distributed cluster?... the good thing of Hadoop is that you can have a
Hadoop cluster and a Riak cluster and both clusters would work
distributed to perform jobs ( Hadoop ) and to deliver data ( Riak KV
)... i wonder how Riak Pipe will work, i hope that it would be like
Hadoop and the computation of a job can be distributed.

Rohman

On Mon, 13 Jun 2011 21:33:44 -0400, Sean Cribbs  wrote:
&gt; You can already use Riak KV as persistence for Hadoop (although it
&gt; can be a bit intensive on IO), I know of one production setup already
&gt; doing this. Riak Pipe on the other hand, could be used to build jobs
&gt; like you would in Hadoop, with greater independence and flexibility
&gt; than Riak KV's standard MapReduce gives you. It's still very new, so
&gt; we're not sure of all the ins-and-outs of supporting it, but we
&gt; encourage you to give it a try.
&gt; 
&gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt; Developer Advocate
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; http://basho.com/
&gt; 
&gt; On Jun 13, 2011, at 9:26 PM, Antonio Rohman Fernandez wrote:
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Can Riak Pipe be used with Hadoop? That would be wonderful!
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Rohman
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Sent from my iPad
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Jun 14, 2011, at 12:20 AM, Bryan Fink  wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Hello again, Community.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; I'm excited to announce the opening of a new beta-status Basho project
&gt;&gt;&gt; today: Riak Pipe.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://github.com/basho/riak\_pipe
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Riak Pipe is a new way to distribute work around a Riak cluster.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; The README explains much more than I can here, but essentially Riak
&gt;&gt;&gt; Pipe allows you to specify work in the form of a chain of function
&gt;&gt;&gt; pairs. One function of that pair describes how to produce output from
&gt;&gt;&gt; input, and the other describes where in the cluster an input should be
&gt;&gt;&gt; processed. Riak Pipe handles the details of ferrying data between
&gt;&gt;&gt; workers by building atop Riak Core's distribution power.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; At this point in time Riak Pipe is BETA-status software. We'd like
&gt;&gt;&gt; anyone who is interested in it to take a look and send us feedback.
&gt;&gt;&gt; Please do not put it into production. We will be continuing to
&gt;&gt;&gt; improve Riak Pipe toward a future release date.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; We have two plans for Riak Pipe. The first is to power Riak's
&gt;&gt;&gt; MapReduce system with it. We think Riak Pipe provides a cleaner, more
&gt;&gt;&gt; manageable subsystem that will provide much easier monitoring,
&gt;&gt;&gt; debugging, and general use of MapReduce in Riak. You can see our work
&gt;&gt;&gt; toward that goal in the "pipe" branch of Riak KV (start at
&gt;&gt;&gt; src/riak\_kv\_mrc\_pipe.erl):
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; https://github.com/basho/riak\_kv/tree/pipe
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Our second plan for Riak Pipe is to expand Riak's MapReduce system
&gt;&gt;&gt; with more abilities (imagine a keyed-reduce phase, or additional
&gt;&gt;&gt; processing languages), possibly to the extent of providing an entirely
&gt;&gt;&gt; separate interface (new query syntax? offline/asynchronous
&gt;&gt;&gt; processing?). But for this part, we need your help.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; We have some ideas about what external client interfaces might look
&gt;&gt;&gt; like. We also have some ideas about what an external processing
&gt;&gt;&gt; interface might look like. We're still in the early phases of
&gt;&gt;&gt; creating these, though, so if exploring the riak\_pipe repository gives
&gt;&gt;&gt; you ideas, please don't hesitate to get in touch.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; And, again, Riak Pipe is BETA software. Basho does not support
&gt;&gt;&gt; running it in production at this time.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Cheers,
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Bryan Fink
&gt;&gt;&gt; Senior Software Engineer
&gt;&gt;&gt; Basho Technologies
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

-- 
ANTONIO ROHMAN FERNANDEZ
CEO, Founder & Lead Engineer
roh...@mahalostudio.com 
PROJECTS
MaruBatsu.es
PupCloud.com
Wedding Album

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

