---
title: "Re: Easier to use Java Client"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-03-29T00:16:04-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg02775"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg02772"
author_name: "Russell Brown"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-03-29T00:16:04-07:00
---



On 29 Mar 2011, at 06:28, Rexxe wrote:

&gt; Hello,
&gt; 
&gt; I am new to Riak and the mailing list. I started to use Riak using the 
&gt; spring-data project but found that their API was lacking and had serious 
&gt; issues with strict typing. It turns out that the Java API they've built is 
&gt; pretty much being built just so it works in Grails/Groovy. So, I started to 
&gt; look at the Riak Java API. I found it to be a bit complicated and I didn't 
&gt; like how it still forced the user to know about a lot of specifics of Riak, 
&gt; especially query params and other properties, and didn't provide a layer of 
&gt; abstraction on top of the actual client (so I could say go switch between the 
&gt; REST and PBC client). 

Here here. I'm working on that, too. There is a draft of the API here 
https://github.com/russelldb/riak-java-client-api/tree/fluent

&gt; So, I decided to write my own client and semi-ORM layer. I am still working 
&gt; on some of the details, I need to write more tests, and I need to document 
&gt; it, but the bulk of the code is done. I have only implemented the REST client 
&gt; so far, but I plan on implementing PB in the future.
&gt; 
&gt; You can check it out here: https://github.com/aberman/spring-riak
&gt; 
&gt; It's pretty easy to use:
&gt; 
&gt; If you want the client, you would do: RiakManager mgr = new 
&gt; RiakRestClient(...);
&gt; 
&gt; The ORM layer (still working a bit on this): RiakTemplate template = new 
&gt; RiakTemplate(new RiakRestClient(...));

What are you using to marshall to java objects? Jackson?

&gt; 
&gt; The APIs to look at are RiakManager and RiakTemplate and you should see some 
&gt; familiar methods with more typed signatures to help out the average user.
&gt; 
&gt; Let me know your thoughts, if any, and if there is any interest in me 
&gt; donating this to the Riak project.

I've only had a brief look but I like it very much, thanks for making it and 
sharing it. We seem to have covered a lot of the same ground but it is great 
to have a diverse range of clients for different use cases. I'll pull the repo 
and have a more detailed look, I'm hoping you may have solved some of the 
problems I'm looking at already ;)

&gt; 
&gt; Andrew
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

