---
title: "Re: LevelDB read performance"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-07-26T16:08:09-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08094"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg08092"
author_name: "Parnell Springmeyer"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-07-26T16:08:09-07:00
---


John, I don't really see a scenario where that would be a useful solution - 
that's a lot of overhead to add a message queuing system into the mix when my 
client should be able to handle the connection(s) just fine.

I think the primary issue comes from the Python client not pooling Riak 
connections.

On Jul 26, 2012, at 5:39 PM, John D. Rowell wrote:

&gt; Why not push the data (or references to it) to a queue (e.g. RabbitMQ) and 
&gt; then run single-threaded consumers that work well with PBC? That would also 
&gt; decouple the processes and allow you to scale them independently.
&gt; 
&gt; -jd
&gt; 
&gt; 2012/7/26 Parnell Springmeyer 
&gt; I'm using Riak in a 5 node cluster with LevelDB for the backend (we store A 
&gt; LOT of archivable data) on FreeBSD.
&gt; 
&gt; The data is mapped out as follows: I have a set of database objects that are 
&gt; closely linked to user accounts - I needed to be able to compose complex 
&gt; queries on these objects including joins with the user data; so it made sense 
&gt; to keep those objects in MySQL.
&gt; 
&gt; I have software that takes those database objects and produces DAILY stats 
&gt; for each object (so we have months/years of data for each database object). 
&gt; These stats are what we store in Riak.
&gt; 
&gt; Now, that application also updates the MySQL database object with the key 
&gt; under which the stat object is stored in Riak for quick and easy compiling of 
&gt; the "latest" data (since it's just a GET operation and not a M/R job).
&gt; 
&gt; Mashing up this data for small sets of MySQL database objects is quick and 
&gt; painless. But once it starts approaching &gt; 1000 objects I notice it slows to 
&gt; a crawl and i notice Riak being pegged pretty hard (IOW it is Riak's 
&gt; response).
&gt; 
&gt; Now; here's the issue: with my web application I haven't figured out how to 
&gt; use the RiakPBC connector - so we are going through the HTTP API. I have a 
&gt; feeling this is where that bottle neck is occurring.
&gt; 
&gt; Why do you ask? Because our Python web app is multi-threaded and the PBC 
&gt; sockets don't play nice here. I'm not finding my experiments to solve this 
&gt; very successful. So I wanted to ask the greater community if anyone HAS or is 
&gt; willing to HELP me solve it!
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks :)
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; 



signature.asc
Description: Message signed with OpenPGP using GPGMail
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

