---
title: "Re: Large ring_creation_size"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-04-20T10:47:30-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03105"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg03024"
author_name: "Greg Nelson"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-04-20T10:47:30-07:00
---


Hi Jon,

Thanks for looking into this! The changes you suggest do make sense. What 
ring\_creation\_size did you use?

I was able to get a cluster of 3 with ring\_creation\_size=2048 up and running on 
3 nodes that have only 2GB or RAM each. Without having to patch 
riak\_core\_ring\_handler, basically by joining the nodes slowly. So, let the 
first node get up and running and settle in to where it's using little or no 
CPU or RAM, then join the second node and wait several minutes for them to 
stabilize, then join the third. It also seems that the biggest spike is when 
the second node joins the first, so it probably tapers off with each subsequent 
join.

I'm wondering how much of an impact it had to disable stats and stop os\_mon?

Greg
On Tuesday, April 19, 2011 at 8:24 AM, Jon Meredith wrote: 
&gt; Hi Greg,
&gt; 
&gt; I had a chance to play around a little over the weekend. I was able to get a 
&gt; couple of nodes to join and store data over the weekend by doing the 
&gt; following.
&gt; 
&gt; \* Disabling riak\_core\_ring\_handler (commenting it out in riak\_core\_app around 
&gt; line 70). This means that vnodes will be started on-demand when they are 
&gt; first accessed and any fallbacks that were running when the node is stopped 
&gt; will not be restarted automatically. There is still a mechanism to pick a 
&gt; random vnode and start it up just in case it has some data, but it will take 
&gt; a long time to find it. 
&gt; 
&gt; \* Disable stats in app.config
&gt; 
&gt; \* Stop os\_mon after startup - application:stop(os\_mon) from the console.
&gt; 
&gt; \* Bumped ERL\_MAX\_PORTS to 20000 or so etc/vm.args 
&gt; 
&gt; I got it to store data with ETS (after adding a -env ERL\_MAX\_ETS\_TABLES 20000 
&gt; to vm.args). The two nodes were able to join with &lt;2gb memory per beam 
&gt; process on my 64-bit osx box.
&gt; 
&gt; Next I tried running with bitcask, but ran out of \*os\* level file descriptors 
&gt; and made my laptop sad and haven't had a chance to raise the limit even 
&gt; higher and retry. If I have problems with that, my next tack was to try 
&gt; innostore as you can bound the number of open file handles using that. Once 
&gt; you have a large number of physical nodes then the per-node file handle 
&gt; requirements will drop, but you need to system to stay up long enough to get 
&gt; to that point. 
&gt; 
&gt; Good luck,
&gt; Jon Meredith
&gt; Basho Technologies.
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Thu, Apr 14, 2011 at 12:00 PM, Jon Meredith  wrote:
&gt; &gt; Hi Greg,
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; I played with this a little last night and this morning and I can reproduce 
&gt; &gt; the behavior you are seeing - my two nodes ate more than a combined 15gig 
&gt; &gt; of memory with 16384 partitions and were promptly killed by the O/S. 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; I haven't had a chance to analyze yet, so this is pure speculation. I 
&gt; &gt; suspect that implementations of functions for calculating partition owners, 
&gt; &gt; preference lists and which partitions to take when nodes join perform 
&gt; &gt; acceptably for the &lt;= 1024 partition case but blow up in some way beyond 
&gt; &gt; that. I was hoping that 4096 would work for you, but it sounds like that 
&gt; &gt; has problems too. 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; I'm finishing up some high priority work at the moment but will investigate 
&gt; &gt; as time permits.
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; Jon
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; On Thu, Apr 14, 2011 at 11:48 AM, Greg Nelson  wrote:
&gt; &gt; &gt; We have a exact idea of the amount of data we'll be storing, and the 
&gt; &gt; &gt; kinds of machines we'll be storing them on. The simple math of (total 
&gt; &gt; &gt; data we'll be storing 6 months from now) / (total capacity of a single 
&gt; &gt; &gt; node) \* (number of duplicates of each datum we'd like to store for 
&gt; &gt; &gt; redundancy) gives us a number a concrete number of machines we'll need, 
&gt; &gt; &gt; whether we're using Riak or something else... 
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; However, that's a little off track from the question I'm trying to 
&gt; &gt; &gt; answer. Which is: 
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; Why is it when I start two nodes with a large-ish ring\_creation\_size -- 
&gt; &gt; &gt; as soon as I join the second node to the first, CPU and memory usage of 
&gt; &gt; &gt; both nodes goes through the roof? No data stored yet. This even happens 
&gt; &gt; &gt; with a ring\_creation\_size I wouldn't consider huge, like 4096. 
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; So that is the small configuration I'm starting with and that is the 
&gt; &gt; &gt; limit I'm hitting.
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; I realize that the feasibility of building out a single 1000 node cluster 
&gt; &gt; &gt; is a larger question. But I can tell you we'll get there; having to shard 
&gt; &gt; &gt; across 10 100-node clusters is an option. Regardless, I'd like to have an 
&gt; &gt; &gt; understanding of what the resource overhead of each vnode is... 
&gt; &gt; &gt; On Thursday, April 14, 2011 at 6:38 AM, Sean Cribbs wrote:
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; Good points, Dave.
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; Also, it's worth mentioning that we've seen that many customers and 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; open-source users think they will need many more nodes than they 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; actually do. Many are able to start with 5 nodes and are happy for 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; quite a while. The only way to tell what you actually need is to start 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; with a baseline configuration and simulate some percentage above your 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; current load. Once you've figured out what size that initial cluster 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; is, start with (number of nodes) \* 50 as the ring\_creation\_size 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; (rounded to the nearest power of 2 of course). This gives you a growth 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; factor of about 5 before you need to consider changing.
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; As well, there's some ops "common sense" that says the lifetime of any 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; single architecture is 18 months or less. That doesn't necessarily mean 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; that you'll be building a new cluster with a larger ring size in 18 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; months, but just that your needs will be different at that time and are 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; hard to predict. Plan for now, worry about the 1000 node cluster when 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; you actually need it.
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; Developer Advocate
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; http://basho.com/
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; On Apr 14, 2011, at 9:09 AM, Dave Barnes wrote:
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; Sorry I feel compelled to chime in.
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; Maybe you could assess your physical node limits and start with a 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; small configuration, then increase it and increase it until you hit 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; a limit.
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; Work small to large.
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; Once you find the pain point, lets us know what resource ran out.
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; You will learn a lot along the way on how your servers behave and 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; we'll discover a lot when you share the results.
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; Thanks for digging in,
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; Dave
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; On Wed, Apr 13, 2011 at 5:11 PM, Greg Nelson  
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; wrote:
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; Ok, how about in this case I described? It runs out of memory with 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; a single pair of nodes...
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; (Or did you mean there's a connection between each pair of vnodes?) 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; On Wednesday, April 13, 2011 at 1:56 PM, Jon Meredith wrote:
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; Hi Greg et al,
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; As you say largest known is not largest possible. Internally 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; within Basho, the largest cluster we've experimented with so far 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; had 50 nodes. 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; Going beyond that it's speculation from me about pain points. 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; 1) It is true that you need enough file descriptors to start up 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; all partitions when a node restarts - Riak checks if there is any 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; handoff data pending for each partition. We have work scheduled 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; to address that in the medium term. The plan is to only spin up 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; partitions the node owns and any that have been started as 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; fallbacks that handoff has not completed for. Until that work is 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; done you will need a high ulimit with large ring sizes. 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; 2) It is also true that Erlang runs a fully connected network, so 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; there will be connections between each node pair in the cluster. 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; We haven't determined the point at which it becomes a problem. 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; So it looks like you'll be pushing the known limits. Basho will 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; do our very best to help overcome any obstacles as you encounter 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; them.
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; Jon Meredith
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; Basho Technologies.
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; On Wed, Apr 13, 2011 at 1:41 PM, Greg Nelson  
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; wrote:
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; The largest known riak cluster != the largest possible riak 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; cluster. ;-)
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; The inter node communication of the cluster depends on the data 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; set and usage pattern, doesn't it? Or is there some constant 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; overhead that tops out at a few hundred nodes? I should point 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; out that we'll have big data, but not a huge number of keys. 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; The number of vnodes in the cluster should be equal to the 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; ring\_creation\_size under normal circumstances, shouldn't it? So 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; when I have a one node cluster, that node is running 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; ring\_creation\_size vnodes... File descriptors probably isn't a 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; problem -- these machines won't be doing anything else, and the 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; limits are set to 65536. 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; Thinking about the internode communication you mentioned, 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; that's probably where the resource hog is.. socket buffers, etc.
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; Anyway, I'd also love to hear more from basho. :)
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; On Wednesday, April 13, 2011 at 12:33 PM, sicul...@gmail.com 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; wrote:
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; Ill just chime in and say that this is not practical for a 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; few reasons. The largest known riak cluster has like 50 or 60 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; nodes. Afaik, inter node communication of erlang clusters top 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; out at a few hundred nodes. I'm also under the impression 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; that each physical node has to have enough file descriptors 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; to accommodate every virtual node in the cluster. 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; I'd love to hear more from basho. 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; -alexander 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; Sent from my Verizon Wireless BlackBerry
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; -----Original Message-----
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; From: Greg Nelson 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; Sender: riak-users-boun...@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; Date: Wed, 13 Apr 2011 12:13:34 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; To: 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; Subject: Large ring\_creation\_size
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; 
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

