---
title: "Re: Riak 1.0"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-10-22T00:46:44-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05243"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg05231"
author_name: "Jim Adler"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-10-22T00:46:44-07:00
---


For the bitcask backend, ring\_num\_partitions=64 and ring\_creation\_size=256.
I haven't seen where to set ring\_num\_partitions in app.config. I have about
8 million keys stored in this cluster.

So, how do I bring up a LevelDB node and join to the existing cluster given
this 64/256 partitions/creation\_size config?

Thanks for the help!

Jim

From: Dan Reverri 
Date: Fri, 21 Oct 2011 09:41:02 -0700
To: Jim Adler 
Cc: Ian Plosker , "riak-users@lists.basho.com"

Subject: Re: Riak 1.0

The "ring\_creation\_size" parameter in app.config must be set before the node
has been started and written a ring file. Assuming the LevelDB node is
empty, you can do the following:

1. Stop the node
2. Clear out the data directories (data/ring, data/leveldb, data/bitcask,
data/mr\_queue, data/kv\_vnode)
3. Verify "ring\_creation\_size" is set to 256 in the app.config file
4. Start the node
5. Verify "ring\_num\_partitions" in "riak-admin status" is 256
6. Join the node to the cluster

Thanks,
Dan
 
Daniel Reverri
Developer Advocate
Basho Technologies, Inc.
d...@basho.com


On Fri, Oct 21, 2011 at 9:30 AM,  wrote:
&gt; 64 on the LevelDB vs 256 on the Bitcask. I guess that’s it. Workaround?
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; Jim
&gt; 
&gt; From: Dan Reverri [mailto:d...@basho.com]
&gt; Sent: Friday, October 21, 2011 9:27 AM
&gt; To: Jim Adler
&gt; Cc: Ian Plosker; riak-users
&gt; Subject: Re: Riak 1.0
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; Hi Jim,
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; Can you check "ring\_num\_partitions" on each node from "riak-admin status"?
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; Dan
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; Daniel Reverri
&gt; Developer Advocate
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; d...@basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; 2011/10/20 Jim Adler 
&gt; 
&gt; I tried the Bitcask-to-LevelDB procedure on 1.0.1 to switch my backend from
&gt; Bitcask to LevelDB. I have one node on Bitcask with my data and the other node
&gt; with a fresh LevelDB backend. When I join the fresh LevelDB node, I get the
&gt; following error: Failed: r...@xx.xx.xx.xx has a different ring\_creation\_size
&gt; 
&gt; riak-admin status | grep creation gives: ring\_creation\_size : 256
&gt; 
&gt; Any ideas?
&gt; 
&gt; Jim
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; From: riak-users-boun...@lists.basho.com
&gt; [mailto:riak-users-boun...@lists.basho.com] On Behalf Of Ian Plosker
&gt; Sent: Saturday, October 01, 2011 8:15 AM
&gt; To: 54chen
&gt; ! Cc: riak-users
&gt; Subject: Re: Riak 1.0
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; There are instructions on the wiki:
&gt; http://wiki.basho.com/Secondary-Indexes.html#Migrating-an-Existing-Cluster-(Me
&gt; thod-One)
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; Basically, you will have each node leave the cluster, switch the backend, and
&gt; then rejoin. The process is something like this:
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 1) Issue `riak-admin leave` and wait for all transfers to complete
&gt; 
&gt; 2) `riak stop`
&gt; 
&gt; 3) Change the backend to the `riak\_kv\_eleveldb\_backend`
&gt; 
&gt; 4) `riak start` and `riak-admin join `
&gt; 
&gt; 5) Repeat for each node in the cluster
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; Ian Plosker
&gt; 
&gt; Developer Advocate
&gt; 
&gt; Basho Technologies
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Sep 30, 2011, at 10:41 PM, 54chen wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; Congratulations!
&gt; 
&gt; Can you give me an example of how the 0.14.2（bitcas! k） upgrade to 1.0（
&gt; levelDB）?
&gt; 
&gt; 2011/10/1 Alexander Sicular 
&gt; Awesome!
&gt; 
&gt; Already got it in place on my mac and ubuntu dev boxes. Smooth.
&gt; 
&gt; -Alexander Sicular
&gt; 
&gt; @siculars
&gt; http://siculars.posterous.com 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Sep 30, 2011, at 4:31 PM, David Smith wrote:
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; &gt; Hi All,
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; I am very pleased to announce that Riak 1.0 is tagged and officially
&gt;&gt; &gt; ready for downloading.
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; Pre-built installations and source tarballs are available at:
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; http://downloads.basho.com/riak/CURRENT
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; Release notes are here:
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; https://github.com/basho/riak/blob/1.0/RELEASE-NOTES.org
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; There is also a blog post about the release here:
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; http://blog.basho.com/2011/09/30/Riak-1-dot-0-is-Official/
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; 1.0 has been two years and 15 releases in the making. Thank you all
&gt;&gt; &gt; for being a part of this project and wonderful community. We couldn't
&gt;&gt; &gt; have done it without you.
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; Sincerely,
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; D.
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; --
&gt;&gt; &gt; Dave Smith
&gt;&gt; &gt; Director, Engineering
&gt;&gt; &gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt;&gt; &gt; diz...@basho.com
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users \_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; -- 
&gt; -
&gt; http://www.54chen.com 
&gt; http://twitter.com/54chen
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 



\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

