---
title: "Fwd: N val nad W - can write ever fail??"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-11-12T15:22:12-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg09291"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg09290"
author_name: "Eric Redmond"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-11-12T15:22:12-08:00
---


Pawel,

I think you've wandered into a real disconnect between how we communicate Riak 
replication, and how it actually works.

Although we say that N="nodes to replicate to", in reality, N="vnodes 
replicated to with every attempt to ensure they are different nodes with no 
guarantee". This is why you can have 3 nodes with 64 vnodes, and still set N&gt;3.

Now W is just the number of successful responses for a write to be considered a 
success. W can be any number less than or equal to N, but the difference will 
still be replicated as well, just asynchronously. For example, if N=3, W=2, 
once two nodes (well, vnodes) have responded, your write is considered a 
success. In the background, Riak will still ensure that third node is 
replicated to, giving you three total replicas.

Hope that helps,
Eric



On Nov 12, 2012, at 3:01 PM, kamiseq  wrote:

&gt; this is funny but recently I started to think again about how riak works and 
&gt; I thought I know more or less the basics ;]
&gt; 
&gt; but I start digging and again I read 
&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/tutorials/fast-track/Tunable-CAP-Controls-in-Riak/
&gt; and then made few tests with riak bucket configured as follows
&gt; 
&gt; N = 3
&gt; W = 3
&gt; 
&gt; I have 2 nodes running in my cluster so far (only 2 are connected) for test 
&gt; and I can still write with hinted handoff. I updated the data and I wrote 
&gt; again with same key - I got success. 
&gt; 
&gt; I changed properties on per request basis and I set w=1 I stopped first node 
&gt; (so I had only one running) and put new key and value. I started first node 
&gt; and query for the key and I got data from both nodes. I did the same with new 
&gt; key again this time with w=3. and again it was successful.
&gt; 
&gt; what is the real difference between N and W. if hinted handoff always save 
&gt; data for later synchronisation can write ever fail. are there any differences 
&gt; between first write and later updates.
&gt; 
&gt; I hope it is not really stupid question
&gt; 
&gt; pozdrawiam
&gt; Paweł Kamiński
&gt; 
&gt; kami...@gmail.com
&gt; pkaminski....@gmail.com
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

