---
title: "Re: Conflict Resolution"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-07-15T14:06:50-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00739"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg00733"
author_name: "Misha Gorodnitzky"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-07-15T14:06:50-07:00
---


Hi Justin,

Thanks for the feedback. Just thought I'd mention we're aiming to go
ahead with a strategy of serialising the transactions before they hit
Riak. We figure it'll be easier to solve than trying to do conflict
resolution.

Cheers,

--Misha

On 14 July 2010 14:00, Justin Sheehy  wrote:
&gt; On Wed, Jul 14, 2010 at 5:25 AM, Misha Gorodnitzky  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; I don't suppose there are any examples anywhere of how people have
&gt;&gt; approached conflict resolution with RIak? That would be useful to help
&gt;&gt; people understand how to approach it ... maybe a section on the wiki
&gt;&gt; could be dedicated to it.
&gt;
&gt; This is a great idea.  We'll find a right place to present this that's
&gt; easier to find.
&gt;
&gt;&gt; In our particular case, we're trying to store transactions in Riak and
&gt;&gt; need to guard against a transaction being placed on a balance that has
&gt;&gt; reached 0. The problem we keep running into is race conditions between
&gt;&gt; when we record the transaction and when we update the cached balance
&gt;&gt; value. Any suggestions on how this has been, or can, be solved would
&gt;&gt; be appreciated.
&gt;
&gt; I suggest that you solve this similarly to the way that banks have
&gt; been doing so for far longer than there have even been computers
&gt; involved.  Each transaction should be (at least) a unique identifier,
&gt; a time, and the amount being added or subtracted to the balance.  This
&gt; way (in addition to storing what you believe the balance to be at any
&gt; time) you can reconcile balances even if you get some transactions
&gt; late or multiple times.
&gt;
&gt; More specifics than that will depend a lot on your application, but
&gt; the key here is that you can make things much neater in situations
&gt; where your actions can be commutative and idempotent.  That's why you
&gt; store the transaction itself instead of just the balance, and a unique
&gt; id so that you don't repeat yourself.
&gt;
&gt; Best of luck,
&gt;
&gt; -Justin
&gt;

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

