---
title: "Re: Big Changes in Riak Tip"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-04-13T13:37:32-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00032"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg00027"
author_name: "Ali Sabil"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-04-13T13:37:32-07:00
---


On Tue, Apr 13, 2010 at 8:58 PM, Bryan Fink  wrote:
&gt; Hello, Riak users.  We wanted to give you all a heads up that we have
&gt; just pulled a large changelog into the tip of the Riak repository.  We
&gt; have been working on this list of changes privately, in order to cause
&gt; less confusion, as it covers a fairly major change, that was
&gt; experimental at first.
&gt;
&gt; The big change is that we have split the 'riak' Erlang application
&gt; into two cooperating applications: 'riak\_core' and 'riak\_kv'.  This
&gt; has both forced us to untangle some code, making interfaces cleaner,
&gt; as well as provided us with the ability to implement new functionality
&gt; on top of the clustering tools that Riak provides, without hacking
&gt; around the needs of the key/value store.
&gt;
&gt; If you are interested in testing before the 0.10 release, please read
&gt; through the TRANSITION document included with the source.  The most
&gt; important notes in there are the ones about changing your
&gt; configuration and ring file names.
&gt;
&gt; If you're looking for the last updates just before this large change,
&gt; please pull the revision tagged "pre-0.10".
&gt;
&gt; More details to come in the 0.10 release notes!
&gt;
&gt; -The Basho Riak Team
&gt;

Are there any plans to split this further and have riak\_core, riak\_kv
and riak\_http ?

Ali

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

