---
title: "Re: riak / riaksearch fails and returns with \"badarg,	universaltime_to_localtime\" on any mapreduce function"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-11-21T08:00:38-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01589"
author_name: "Michal Zajda"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-11-21T08:00:38-08:00
---


Hi,
 this is erlang issue.

According to documentation (
http://erlang.org/doc/man/calendar.html#local\_time\_to\_universal\_time\_dst-1):
"This function converts from local time to Universal Coordinated Time (UTC).
Date1 must refer to a local date after Jan 1, 1970." 5&gt;

And here my shell:

calendar:local\_time\_to\_universal\_time\_dst({{1969,12,31},{23,59,59}}).
\*\* exception error: bad argument
 in function erlang:localtime\_to\_universaltime/2
 called as
erlang:localtime\_to\_universaltime({{1969,12,31},{23,59,59}},
 true)
 in call from calendar:local\_time\_to\_universal\_time\_dst/1

6&gt; calendar:local\_time\_to\_universal\_time\_dst({{1970,1,1},{23,59,59}}).
[{{1970,1,1},{22,59,59}}]

Track down date generator and handle the case.

--
Michal

On 21 November 2010 11:10, A. Sebastian Dietzel wrote:

&gt; Hi,
&gt;
&gt; I've trouble getting the mapreduce functions to work in riak and
&gt; riaksearch.
&gt; It fails with some sort of timestamp error, unfortunately I'm not good
&gt; enough in
&gt; Erlang to fix it, but I've attached the error logs and riaksearch-admin
&gt; status output - hope that helps.
&gt;
&gt; So far, I've tried it on my local dev machine (osx - riak/riaksearch source
&gt; installation, tarball and github master branch),
&gt; on centos 5.3 (github master) and on ubuntu,
&gt; the .deb packaged version on ubuntu works and doesn't fail in my test
&gt; cases.
&gt;
&gt; The attached test is written in python based on the test cases in the
&gt; library
&gt; and utilizes the http client from the python library for riak.
&gt; But that shouldn't matter, it also fails via the pbc-python client (I've
&gt; attached logs for that as well),
&gt; as well as in ruby (using the official client) and via curl too.
&gt; I didn't attach any logs for ruby or curl, as they're similar to the http
&gt; based python client.
&gt;
&gt; Since no one else is having these issues, I presume I'm doing something
&gt; wrong
&gt; but I don't know what exactly.
&gt;
&gt; I'm running riak/riaksearch from the console like this:
&gt; ulimit -n 1024
&gt; $PATH\_TO\_RIAKS\_SRC/rel/bin/riaksearch start
&gt;
&gt; or for regular riak:
&gt; $PATH\_TO\_RIAK\_SRC/rel/bin/riak start
&gt;
&gt; This works and starts riak / riaksearch, but as soon as I start doing
&gt; anything mapreduce with the servers they fail with:
&gt;
&gt; ...
&gt; {badarg,[{erlang,universaltime\_to\_localtime,[{{1969,12,31},{23,59,59}}]},{calendar,local\_time\_to\_universal\_time\_dst,1}
&gt; ...
&gt;
&gt; I'm using Erlang R13B04.
&gt;
&gt; Please let me know if I can provide anything else to help solving this
&gt; issue.
&gt;
&gt; Thank you in advance,
&gt; Sebastian
&gt; --
&gt; A. Sebastian Dietzel (el mariachi)
&gt; sebast...@dubizzle.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

