---
title: "Re: riak failed to start up"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-08-07T16:04:33-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08199"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg08187"
author_name: "Mark Phillips"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-08-07T16:04:33-07:00
---


Hi Sangeetha,

It looks familiar but it's hard to say. Can you share the Riak
version? And what OS you're running?

Mark

On Tue, Aug 7, 2012 at 4:15 AM,  wrote:
&gt; Hi ,
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Can any one help me on the start up error ..thx in advance
&gt;
&gt; [root@CTSINGMRGTO riak]# cat console.log
&gt;
&gt; 2012-08-07 09:13:54.260 [error] &lt;0.164.0&gt; CRASH REPORT Process
&gt; riak\_core\_capability with 0 neighbours exited with reason: no function
&gt; clause matching orddict:fetch('riak@127.0.0.1', []) line 72 in
&gt; gen\_server:terminate/6 line 747
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; [root@CTSINGMRGTO riak]# riak start
&gt;
&gt; Attempting to restart script through sudo -u riak
&gt;
&gt; /etc/profile: line 31: id: command not found
&gt;
&gt; /usr/sbin/riak: line 6: uname: command not found
&gt;
&gt; /usr/sbin/riak: line 6: [: too many arguments
&gt;
&gt; /usr/sbin/riak: line 30: whoami: command not found
&gt;
&gt; sudo doesn't appear to be installed and your EUID isn't riak
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; on running as service
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; [root@CTSINGMRGTO riak]# service riak start
&gt;
&gt; Starting Riak: Riak failed to start within 15 seconds,
&gt;
&gt; see the output of 'riak console' for more information.
&gt;
&gt; If you want to wait longer, set the environment variable
&gt;
&gt; WAIT\_FOR\_ERLANG to the number of seconds to wait.
&gt;
&gt; [FAILED]
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Thanks & regards
&gt;
&gt; sangeetha
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; This e-mail and any files transmitted with it are for the sole use of the
&gt; intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential and privileged
&gt; information. If you are not the intended recipient(s), please reply to the
&gt; sender and destroy all copies of the original message. Any unauthorized
&gt; review, use, disclosure, dissemination, forwarding, printing or copying of
&gt; this email, and/or any action taken in reliance on the contents of this
&gt; e-mail is strictly prohibited and may be unlawful.
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

