---
title: "Re: Riak Adoption - What can we do better?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-04-25T12:37:14-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07323"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg07286"
author_name: "Mark Phillips"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-04-25T12:37:14-07:00
---


On Mon, Apr 23, 2012 at 10:33 AM, Mark Phillips  wrote:

&gt; Update: I'm working on rolling this thread into a blog post with a summary
&gt; of all these suggestions and what we're doing to address them in the short
&gt; and long term. This will be out today with any luck.
&gt;
&gt; Thanks for this. Never have I been so excited by people pointing out our
&gt; shortcomings. :)
&gt;
&gt;
As promised, here's the blog post:

http://www.themarkphillips.com/2012/04/24/riak-adoption-we-have-some-work-to-do.html

It's a bit longwinded but I had no choice. There was a lot to cover.

Back to work. :)

Mark



&gt; Mark
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Sat, Apr 21, 2012 at 2:25 PM, Les Mikesell wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Sat, Apr 21, 2012 at 12:55 PM, Gideon de Kok  wrote:
&gt;&gt; &gt; Op zaterdag 21 april 2012, om 19:50 heeft Les Mikesell het volgende
&gt;&gt; &gt; geschreven:
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; Is there 'something like redis' that doesn't introduce a single point
&gt;&gt; &gt; of failure? And a completely different set of administrative
&gt;&gt; &gt; concepts?
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; A different, Riak only, approach is to safe the sorted keys in a Riak
&gt;&gt; &gt; object:
&gt;&gt; &gt; - You could have a sorted list of keys in a array in a user object for
&gt;&gt; &gt; instance.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; That seems to assume that a single client has all the keys at once.
&gt;&gt; What if your clients and the data sources are distributed as well?
&gt;&gt; And if that could work reliably from a set of clients, why can't the
&gt;&gt; server side do it?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; Les Mikesell
&gt;&gt; lesmikes...@gmail.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

