---
title: "Re: Interesting problem with riaksearch indexes"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-08-23T03:53:12-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04417"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04413"
author_name: "francisco treacy"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-08-23T03:53:12-07:00
---


Hmmm, definitely not great... but thanks Ryan for the explanation

Francisco


2011/8/23 Ryan Zezeski 

&gt; Gordon,
&gt;
&gt; The reason for the nondeterministic behavior is two-fold.
&gt;
&gt; 1. For performance reasons Search only ever reads from 1 node (R=1)
&gt;
&gt; 2. As an attempt to balance load and reduce vnode contention this node is
&gt; selected randomly
&gt;
&gt; This is why it works 50% of the time. Because now, for each index entry, 2
&gt; partitions have the data and 1 does not. So depending on which one you hit
&gt; you'll get the data or not. Furthermore, this behavior will continue until
&gt; you reindex because the index in Search has no form of anti-entropy such as
&gt; read repair or merkle trees.
&gt;
&gt; In the future the easiest thing is to replace that lost node as quickly as
&gt; possible. While it's down the other nodes will keep track of the new index
&gt; entries and will transfer them during data handoff when the node comes alive
&gt; again. By removing the node you've changed the ring and your only option is
&gt; to reindex as you are already doing. I realize that bringing that node up
&gt; or replacing it may not have been an option but this is the only way to
&gt; avoid this problem with Search as it stands today.
&gt;
&gt; I realize this sucks and isn't in line with Riak's more fault tolerant
&gt; behavior. It does suck. I hate the fact that I have to write this email
&gt; basically telling you this part of Search is broken, IMO. I want to see it
&gt; addressed and I'm sure I'm not the only one. Right now our internal ticket
&gt; board is buzzing in anticipation for the new release. After that there is a
&gt; lot of love I want to give Search, this particular issue included. I'd say
&gt; it's only a matter of time.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; -Ryan
&gt;
&gt; On Fri, Aug 19, 2011 at 2:46 PM, Gordon Tillman wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Greetings all,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; After an extended datacenter power outage, a 3-node Riak cluster shut
&gt;&gt; down. When the power was restored, two of the three nodes came back up.
&gt;&gt; Don't know what is going on with the third node. But in the mean time, have
&gt;&gt; removed the dead node from the ring. The two remaining nodes show a good
&gt;&gt; ringready status.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; The problem is that the search indexes appear to be in an inconsistent
&gt;&gt; state. For example, I can issue the same solr query on one of the nodes and
&gt;&gt; 50% of the time it returns correct results. The other times it returns an
&gt;&gt; empty result set.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I'm in the process of re-indexing the bucket in question (a very
&gt;&gt; time-consuming affair). But I wonder if anyone could shed some light on
&gt;&gt; this situation as to why it occurred in the first place and if there is
&gt;&gt; anything that can be done to keep this from happening again in the future.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Many thanks,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; --gordon
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

