---
title: "Re: [ANN] Riak Release 0.11.0"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-06-12T15:00:58-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00581"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg00546"
author_name: "Dan Reverri"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-06-12T15:00:58-07:00
---


Hi Jason,

Regarding rack-aware distribution, at this time Riak is not rack-aware. I've
filed a request in Bugzilla for this feature:
http://issues.basho.com/show\_bug.cgi?id=245

Regarding general replica distribution, Riak guarantees that replicas will
be placed on at least N-1 distinct nodes when physically possible\*. This
means for N=3, replicas will be placed on at least 2 distinct nodes. In most
cases replicas will be placed on N distinct nodes but there are some
degenerate cases where replicas are only placed on 2 nodes. More information
can be found here:
http://issues.basho.com/show\_bug.cgi?id=228

\*When physically possible refers to having at least N physical nodes
available. Meaning you can't place 3 replicas on distinct nodes if you only
have 2 nodes.

Thanks,
Dan

Daniel Reverri
Developer Advocate
Basho Technologies, Inc.
d...@basho.com


On Wed, Jun 9, 2010 at 1:47 PM, Jason J. W. Williams &lt;
jasonjwwilli...@gmail.com&gt; wrote:

&gt; Hi David,
&gt;
&gt; Thank you for responding. On a separate note, will there be any way to
&gt; make Riak rack-aware for data distribution?
&gt;
&gt; It's concerning for removing nodes that you can't guarantee there
&gt; aren't at least 2 out of 3/4 copies on different nodes.
&gt;
&gt; -J
&gt;
&gt; On Wed, Jun 9, 2010 at 2:21 PM, David Smith  wrote:
&gt; &gt; Jason,
&gt; &gt; Our testing has shown bitcask to have as good recovery as DETS (the
&gt; previous
&gt; &gt; default backend), and MUCH better overall performance. However, I'm going
&gt; to
&gt; &gt; stop short of saying definitively that the recovery of bitcask is as good
&gt; &gt; as/better than innostore, simply because we don't have enough data to
&gt; &gt; support it...yet. :)
&gt; &gt; I will say, however, that the append-only nature of bitcask minimizes the
&gt; &gt; opportunity to lose and/or corrupt data, not to mention obviating the
&gt; need
&gt; &gt; for log files ala InnoDB.
&gt; &gt; D.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; On Wed, Jun 9, 2010 at 1:59 PM, Jason J. W. Williams
&gt; &gt;  wrote:
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; Does the bitcask back end handle crash recovery as well as the
&gt; &gt;&gt; InnoStore backend?
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; -J
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; On Wed, Jun 9, 2010 at 1:55 PM, Jon Meredith 
&gt; wrote:
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; Hello, Riak users. We are excited to announce the release of Riak
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; version
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; 0.11.
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; Pre-built installations and source tarballs are available at:
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; http://downloads.basho.com/
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; Release notes are at (also copied below):
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; http://downloads.basho.com/riak/riak-0.11/riak-0.11.0.txt
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; IMPORTANT: If you are upgrading an existing Riak cluster, please read
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; the
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; transition document at
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; http://bitbucket.org/basho/riak/src/4235ceeb8d6/TRANSITION
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; Cheers,
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; The Basho Riak Team
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; -------------------------
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; Riak 0.11.0 Release Notes
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; -------------------------
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; Bitcask has arrived as the new default backend for Riak. Bitcask is
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; Basho's
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; new key/value store that should provide good balanced performance out
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; of the box on most systems. Read more about it from the initial
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; announcement here http://blog.basho.com/2010/04/27/hello,-bitcask/
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; Users that wish to upgrade from another backend will need to backup
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; their
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; cluster (using riak-admin) before changing the backend in app.config,
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; restart
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; riak and restore from the backup into bitcask.
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; The protocol buffers client (PBC) interface has been enhanced to
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; add map/reduce support and access to simple bucket properties. The
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; erlang and python clients have been updated accordingly.
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; Put operations using the local erlang client that request a returnbody
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; have received a performance enhancement. Internally the put operation
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; now returns the body directly, so an additional get is no longer
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; required. The PBC and HTTP interfaces have been updated to use
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; this new mechanism.
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; Enhancements
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; --------
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; 58 - provide default content-type of application/octet-stream if none
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; present in the object.
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; 74 - create ring directory if non-existant
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; 142 - riak-admin leave restored
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; Bugs Fixed
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; ----------
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; 35 - {error, blah} messages are now passed on to javascript
&gt; map/reduce
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; jobs
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; 104 - missing bucket/key into map/reduce job crashed it. Fixed.
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; 193 - list keys sometimes uses downed nodes. Fixed.
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; 208 - deleting a key with a post-commit hook set crashed riak. Fixed.
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

