---
title: "Re: deleting keys"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-05-31T17:13:31-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03512"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg03511"
author_name: "Keith Bennett"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-05-31T17:13:31-07:00
---


Robert -

Until a source code change a few days ago, riak would by default cache the keys 
reported to be in a bucket, so after fetching them once they would not be 
updated after deletions, additions, etc. The key is indeed gone, but the keys 
API did not report the change.

If you go to the message archive at 
http://lists.basho.com/pipermail/riak-users\_lists.basho.com/2011-May/thread.html,
 and search for "Riak cleint resources", you'll see the ruckus that I started a 
week and a half ago about this very subject. ;)

There is an option to force the reloading of keys but I forget what it is, and 
anyway it is now gone from the current code base since the strategy was 
changed. Be warned that using the keys method is, anyway, as Sean Cribbs 
pointed out to me, in general an awful idea, and almost always should be 
avoided. This is because it's a very expensive operation -- in order to 
accomplish it, all keys in the data store need to be accessed.

My guess is that testing for the exception you encountered is probably the best 
way to test for existence/absence of a key, but hopefully those more 
knowledgeable than I will enlighten us on that.

- Keith

On May 31, 2011, at 7:23 PM, Dingwell, Robert A. wrote:

&gt; Hi,
&gt; 
&gt; When deleting a key from a bucket I'm noticing that the object associated 
&gt; with the key is gone but the key itself is still sticking around. I loop 
&gt; though all of the keys in a bucket and then call delete on each one, the 
&gt; object for the key is then gone so if I try to get the object for that key I 
&gt; get a 404 as expected. But if I look at the bucket in the browser with the 
&gt; keys=true parameter, all of the keys are still there. Is this normal and if 
&gt; so how do I get rid of the keys?
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

