---
title: "Riak Recap for 8/2 - 8/3"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-08-04T13:21:03-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00843"
author_name: "Mark Phillips"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-08-04T13:21:03-07:00
---


Afternoon, Evening, Morning to all,

We have an awesome Recap for today: Blog posts, a node.js client,
interviews, Gists, and some great questions from #riak.

Enjoy -

Mark

Community Manager
Basho Technologies
wiki.basho.com
twitter.com/pharkmillups

-----

Riak Recap for 8/2 - 8/3

1) Dzone put up a short piece talking about Kevin Smith's
"Introduction to Rick Core" blog post.

Post here ---&gt; http://architects.dzone.com/articles/basho-packages-its-riak-core

2) Bruno Michel, who has written some great stuff about Riak releases
in the past, put out a short piece for Linuxfr.org called, "Petites
brèves : NoSQL : Neo4J, Riak, Kyoto Cabinet et Graylog2." Merci,
Bruno!

Post here --&gt; http://bit.ly/aH0EM9

3) technoweenie has been dropping some hints over the last few days in
#riak that that his PB client for Node.js was almost ready for public
consumption. Yesterday, in the early morning hours, he delivered it
(with an accompanying blog). Thanks, Rick!

Post here ---&gt; http://techno-weenie.net/2010/8/3/protobuf-for-node

4) @jebui has been doing some great stuff with Riak. In addition to
contributing patches, he's also using it in production at inagist.com.
And now we have some details how he is using it. This is an awesome
post! Thanks for sharing, Jebu!

Read this ---&gt; http://post.ly/q0wH

5) Basho CTO and Riak hacker Justin Sheehy sat down with Sadek Drobi
when he was at Erlang Factory some months ago to do an interview for
InfoQ. It's a great interview, so if you like Riak, NoSQL, and Open
source, check it out.

Interview here ---&gt; http://bit.ly/baNz9h

6) seancribbs and vicmargar had a chat in #riak that started with,
"what is the recommended way to connect to riak from erlang? "

Gist here ---&gt; http://gist.github.com/508657

7) Q --- When you have a cluster, should your client have a list of
host names and ports so it doesnt constantly hit the same node? (from
technoweenie via #riak)

 A --- Having a list of available Riak nodes in your client is a
viable option to distribute, but using a TCP loadbalancer with a
"least connected" option is more robust.

8) Q --- I am trying to write some erlang for postcommit indexing. I
compiled and added the module and function to the running riak, added
the module/function to the bucket properties and then ran some test
queries. however, when I run it I get this error:

\*\* Reason for termination = \*\*
{{case\_clause,{struct,[{&lt;&lt;"mod"&gt;&gt;,&lt;&lt;"post\_commit\_index"&gt;&gt;},
&lt;&lt;"fun"&gt;&gt;,&lt;&lt;"index\_value"&gt;&gt;}]}}, [{riak\_kv\_put\_fsm,invoke\_hook,3},
{riak\_kv\_put\_fsm,waiting\_vnode\_dw,2}, {gen\_fsm,handle\_msg,7},
{proc\_lib,init\_p\_do\_apply,3}]}

I'm not sure where else too look for further indications of what is
wrong, anyone on that can assist a newb?

 A --- It looks like you defined mod, fun instead of a list of mod,
funs. If you change the bucket property postcommit to a list of
mod,fun objects rather than setting it to a mod.fun object, you should
be good to go.

9) Q --- How can I watch a riak error log? (from technoweenie via #riak)

 A --- "riak console" is one option. You can also tail /log/erlang.log.#

10) siculars, justinsheehy and seancribbs kicked around some ideas in
#riak around how bitcask might be used to list keys more-efficiently.

Gist here ---&gt; http://gist.github.com/508693

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

