---
title: "Re: Ripple + riak confguration"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-11-28T20:40:45-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05772"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg05751"
author_name: "Vamsi Krishna"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-11-28T20:40:45-08:00
---


Sean,

 Thank you very much for your suggestions Sean.

On Mon, Nov 28, 2011 at 8:56 PM, Sean Cribbs  wrote:

&gt; Vamsi,
&gt;
&gt; What we typically have suggested is that you use an external load-balancer
&gt; that can spread requests evenly across the Riak cluster, and that the
&gt; client connect only to that load-balancer (usually software) on localhost.
&gt; There are many options available for software LBs - haproxy, pen, pound,
&gt; and nginx are frequently mentioned. Which one you use depends on what your
&gt; admins are experienced with and what your use-case requires. That said, I
&gt; think the multi-node support in Ripple is a good thing going forward, and
&gt; you should use that if possible. The tradeoff here is primarily whether you
&gt; want to change your Ruby app's configuration or your LB's when you
&gt; add/remove nodes from the Riak cluster.
&gt;
&gt; On Mon, Nov 28, 2011 at 6:37 AM, Vamsi Krishna 
&gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hey Mattias,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks a lot for your quick response, the link you have given as good
&gt;&gt; information. But, what if I use normal queries for ex: I do User.find("
&gt;&gt; matt...@gmail.com") or something like that then if the node that is
&gt;&gt; setup on the ripple.yml is down then it cant information from other nodes
&gt;&gt; and it became quite a problem to handle/fix this issue.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Regards,
&gt;&gt; Vamsi.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Mon, Nov 28, 2011 at 4:37 PM, Mathias Meyer wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Vamsi,
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; there's nothing wrong with your cluster setup. Support for multiple
&gt;&gt;&gt; nodes in Ripple is being worked on in the master branch, you can have a
&gt;&gt;&gt; lookie here at the documentation update on how to use it:
&gt;&gt;&gt; https://github.com/seancribbs/ripple/commit/88fed2bdb1900ccc26fd292b3607d66cbcbe82c4
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Cheers, Mathias
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; On Montag, 28. November 2011 at 11:43, Vamsi Krishna wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; Hi,
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; I was able to set up a riak cluster with 4 nodes. I am using ripple as
&gt;&gt;&gt; an orm for riak db, but I can only configure with one node. I am getting
&gt;&gt;&gt; data replicated in other nodes but, the issue is if the configured node
&gt;&gt;&gt; with ripple is down I was not able to make use of the other nodes. Is there
&gt;&gt;&gt; a way that I can configure ripple with all those nodes? Or can is there
&gt;&gt;&gt; something wrong with the cluster setup ? I followed wiki.basho.com (
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://wiki.basho.com) for the cluster setup.
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; Regards,
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; Vamsi.
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt; Developer Advocate
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; http://www.basho.com/
&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

