---
title: "Re: Lager and Scribe"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-11-17T12:10:44-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05642"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg05631"
author_name: "Jon Brisbin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-11-17T12:10:44-08:00
---


Not to hijack your thread or anything, but I just pushed to Github a lager 
backend for sending stuff to AMQP. You could have a subscriber in Java or 
whatever that fed those messages directly into HDFS and wouldn't have to worry 
about Thrift directly in the backend...

https://github.com/jbrisbin/lager\_amqp\_backend

Thanks!

Jon Brisbin
http//jbrisbin.com

----- Original Message -----

&gt; From: "Bip Thelin" 
&gt; To: riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; Sent: Thursday, November 17, 2011 9:52:58 AM
&gt; Subject: Lager and Scribe

&gt; Hi,

&gt; I've been thinking about using lager to push logs to our Big Data
&gt; Hadoop backend for later analysis using Scribe. Looking at the
&gt; lager\_syslog backend it looks fairly simple to create such a
&gt; backend. But thrift works kind of different and some implementation
&gt; questions occur when going through the lager code.

&gt; The way thrift works is that you create a connection:
&gt; {ok, Client} = thrift\_client\_util:new()

&gt; then you can use the Client to do subsequent calls like
&gt; {Client2, \_Result} = thrift\_client:call(Client, ...)

&gt; {Client3, \_Result} = thrift\_client:call(Client2, ...)
&gt; [...]

&gt; The problem is that you get a new Client descriptor every time and as
&gt; I've understood it you shouldn't use the same Client twice but
&gt; instead use the new one with each call. One could of course create a
&gt; client and do the call within each handle\_event() and pay that
&gt; penalty hit but there must be a smarter way. I was going through the
&gt; lager\_file\_backend and saw that you use a FD that get's passed
&gt; around, is that a good approach to use something similar for a
&gt; Scribe backend?

&gt; --
&gt; Bip Thelin

&gt; Evolope AB | Lugnets Allé 1 | 120 33 Stockholm
&gt; Tel 08-533 335 37 | Mob 0735-18 18 90
&gt; www. evolope.se

&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

