---
title: "Re: Interesting problem with riaksearch indexes"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-12-12T07:59:48-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05915"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg05914"
author_name: "Ryan Zezeski"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-12-12T07:59:48-08:00
---


Markus,

I thought there was an issue created for this but alas there was not. I
went ahead and created one:

https://issues.basho.com/show\_bug.cgi?id=1304

If there is anything you would like to add (even if it's just a comment
that says "please fix this") then don't hesitate.

-Ryan

On Mon, Dec 12, 2011 at 10:19 AM, Markus Silpala  wrote:

&gt; Greetings, all.
&gt;
&gt; I was combing Bugzilla and release notes this weekend to find out whether
&gt; the search-indices-not-so-fault-tolerant has been fixed yet. Nothing I
&gt; found seemed to match exactly. Is the issue still present?
&gt;
&gt; If so I think I'll go open a bug for it—I just didn't want to create a
&gt; duplicate if it's already been done.
&gt;
&gt; Thanks much,
&gt;
&gt; -Markus S
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Aug 22, 2011, at 10:18 PM, Ryan Zezeski wrote:
&gt;
&gt; &gt; The reason for the nondeterministic behavior is two-fold.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; 1. For performance reasons Search only ever reads from 1 node (R=1)
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; 2. As an attempt to balance load and reduce vnode contention this node
&gt; is selected randomly
&gt;
&gt; 
&gt;
&gt; &gt; I realize this sucks and isn't in line with Riak's more fault tolerant
&gt; behavior. It does suck. I hate the fact that I have to write this email
&gt; basically telling you this part of Search is broken, IMO. I want to see it
&gt; addressed and I'm sure I'm not the only one. Right now our internal ticket
&gt; board is buzzing in anticipation for the new release. After that there is
&gt; a lot of love I want to give Search, this particular issue included. I'd
&gt; say it's only a matter of time.
&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

