---
title: "Re: Inconsistent results from Riak Search"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-06-28T22:26:36-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03854"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg03849"
author_name: "Sylvain Niles"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-06-28T22:26:36-07:00
---


I had to re-index a bucket and used the erlang bucket export/import in
the riak function contrib. One minor gotcha is the export function
takes a binary string arg: &lt;&lt;"bucketname"&gt;&gt; while the bucket importer
uses a normal string "bucketname". Feel free to ping me if you have
any questions about how to get it going.

-Sylvain


On Tue, Jun 28, 2011 at 2:28 PM, James Linder  wrote:
&gt; On Tue, Jun 28, 2011 at 11:01 AM, Scott Lystig Fritchie
&gt;  wrote:
&gt;&gt; James Linder  wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; jl&gt; I am getting inconsistent results using the Riak Search Solr
&gt;&gt; jl&gt; interface. Specifically, the number of results and ordering of
&gt;&gt; jl&gt; results is changing from one query to the next.
&gt;&gt; jl&gt; [...]
&gt;&gt; jl&gt; - We are running riak-search-0.14.0-1.el5 installed via the Basho
&gt;&gt; jl&gt; provided RPM
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; James, does the same thing happen with the 0.14.2 release?  Earlier 0.14
&gt;&gt; releases used a sort that wasn't stable and so result ordering could be
&gt;&gt; (and frequently were) different.
&gt;
&gt; We upgraded to 14.2, using the RPM for riak search, and are continuing
&gt; to see the following issue:
&gt;
&gt; - the number of results found by a solr query to riak search is
&gt;  changing from one call to the next, even when run against
&gt;  the same server.
&gt;
&gt; One thought I have is that the index got corrupted somehow.? and thus,
&gt; perhaps re-indexing the contents of the bucket I am searching would
&gt; fix the issue. I haven't been able to find any information on how to
&gt; accomplish that.
&gt;
&gt; How would I re-index all the contents of a bucket?
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt;
&gt; James
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

