---
title: "Re: EC2 and node names"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-05-03T10:52:20-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03210"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg03208"
author_name: "Grant Schofield"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-05-03T10:52:20-07:00
---


On May 3, 2011, at 12:35 PM, Jeff Pollard wrote:

&gt; Grant,
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks for the reply. I think I understand what you're saying, but it's not 
&gt; 100% clear to me how exactly it applies to my question. I'll try explaining 
&gt; my plan another way if that helps.
&gt; 
&gt; Imagine we have 4 nodes running in a ring on EC2: riak@10.5.0.1, 
&gt; riak@10.5.0.2, riak@10.5.0.3, riak@10.5.0.4. Then one day node riak@10.5.0.3 
&gt; goes down and is unrecoverable. Our plan had been: 
&gt; 
&gt; # On a existing node in the cluster
&gt; riak-admin remove riak@10.5.0.3
&gt; riak-admin ringready
&gt; # .. wait for TRUE
&gt; 
&gt; # Boot a new EC2 machine configured as riak@10.5.0.5 (brand new IP)
&gt; # Then on that new machine...
&gt; riak start
&gt; riak-admin join riak@10.5.0.1
&gt; riak-admin ringready
&gt; # .. wait for TRUE
&gt; 
&gt; In that scenario, I imagine the issue is that removing and adding a new node 
&gt; under a new node name is putting extra strain on the cluster to shift data 
&gt; around? Simply replacing a new node under the same hostname (even though it 
&gt; has a different IP) would mean less work for the cluster? And how much extra 
&gt; work are 
&gt; 

You're correct in assuming that there is extra strain on the cluster moving 
that data around, but the amount of that churn will depend on how much data you 
have in your Riak cluster and your use case. Removing and adding a node is a 
great way to replace a broken node, but if you have a large amount of data it 
might be quicker and load the cluster less to replace the broken node with a 
node that has the same hostname or IP and the old nodes data directory. 

If riak@10.5.0.3 dies due to a disk problem and your backups won't contain the 
data you would need to replace the node as you described. The best solution for 
replacing a dead node will vary based on circumstances, your use case, and your 
availability needs.

Grant



&gt; Thanks!
&gt; 
&gt; On Tue, May 3, 2011 at 6:24 AM, Grant Schofield  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; On May 2, 2011, at 7:58 PM, Jeff Pollard wrote:
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; I was reviewing the Riak Operations webinar, and it was mentioned that the 
&gt;&gt; preferred vm.args -name for EC2 environments should be "riak@hostname" 
&gt;&gt; because you don't have to "rename data or do anything weird" like you would 
&gt;&gt; if your nodes were named "riak@ip.address" (approximately 40:05 in the 
&gt;&gt; video).
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; I was looking for some elaboration on this tip, namely:
&gt;&gt; What is meant by "rename data or do anything weird"
&gt; 
&gt; When you bring a cluster together using data copied from a different set of 
&gt; nodes you need to re-ip the first node you plan to start but you also have to 
&gt; change the ring manually on that node so when the subsequent nodes join 
&gt; everything works properly. 
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Is "hostname" in riak@hostname a public DNS host that you configure in your 
&gt;&gt; DNS to map to the EC2 public hostname (ec2-50-18-...)?
&gt; 
&gt; You can use DNS (public or private) or host file entries that reference the 
&gt; private IP of the node if you choose to use hostname.
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Does anyone have any best practices around vm.args -name in EC2 environments?
&gt; 
&gt; We haven't outlined any best practices ourselves, but I tend to believe using 
&gt; a hostname that you can change the IP for via DNS or a hosts file is a more 
&gt; flexible way of approaching the problem. 
&gt; 
&gt; Grant
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Thanks!
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; 

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

