---
title: "Re: riak search and numeric fields"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-01-16T17:42:31-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg02001"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg02000"
author_name: "Joseph Lambert"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-01-16T17:42:31-08:00
---


Make sure you check the padding of the number. I can no longer locate in the
wiki where it said you need to pad integer types, but as far as I remember
you need to pad the integer out to at least 10 digits. You should be able to
set a custom padding size like so:

{field, [ {name, "account"}, {type, integer}, {\*padding\*\_size, 20} ]}, but I
could not make it work before with a padding size of less than 10. I may be
wrong now with the new release, but give it a try.

Instead of 5555, use 0000005555, and it should index properly.

- Joe Lambert

joseph.g.lamb...@gmail.com
+86 13656213284


On Mon, Jan 17, 2011 at 6:12 AM, Gary William Flake  wrote:

&gt; Per the advice from my earlier question (about retrieving records in a
&gt; particular sort order), I've been playing with Riak Search in an attempt to
&gt; use a range query over a numeric field to get the sort order that I want (or
&gt; at least the right range).
&gt;
&gt; For the life of me, I can't get Riak Search to index on a numeric value,
&gt; even if it is a \*\_num field. I know that Lucene had some issues in the past
&gt; with having to get around the standard parsers stripping out numbers, but I
&gt; had assume that since Riak Search explicitly has a numeric type in its
&gt; schema, that this would be supported out of the box.
&gt;
&gt; Anyhow, I've tried every combination of setting up fields name as \*\_num,
&gt; with values as strings or as unquoted ints, with using different encoding,
&gt; etc. The net of it is that I can't query on anything numeric.
&gt;
&gt; What's the trick?
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; -- GWF
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

