---
title: "Re: Reip(ing) riak node created two copies in the cluster"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-05-02T08:48:06-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07370"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg07369"
author_name: "Mark Phillips"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-05-02T08:48:06-07:00
---


First question: what version of Riak are you running?

Mark


On May 2, 2012, at 11:05, Nitish Sharma  wrote:

&gt; Hi,
&gt; We have a 12-node Riak cluster. Until now we were naming every new node as 
&gt; riak@. We then decided to rename the all the nodes to 
&gt; riak@, which makes troubleshooting easier. 
&gt; After issuing reip command to two nodes, we noticed in the "status" that 
&gt; those 2 nodes were now appearing in the cluster with the old name as well as 
&gt; the new name. Other nodes were trying to handoff partitions to the "new" 
&gt; nodes, but apparently they were not able to. After this the whole cluster 
&gt; went down and completely stopped responding to any read/write requests. 
&gt; member\_status displayed old Riak name in "legacy" mode. Since this is our 
&gt; production cluster, we are desperately looking for some quick remedies. 
&gt; Issuing "force-remove" to the old names, restarting all the nodes, changing 
&gt; the riak names back to the old ones - none of it helped.
&gt; Currently, we are hosting limited amount of data. Whats an elegant way to 
&gt; recover from this mess? Would shutting off all the nodes, deleting the ring 
&gt; directory, and again forming the cluster work?
&gt; 
&gt; Cheers
&gt; Nitish 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

