---
title: "Re: Regarding Data Information On Riak Cluster"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-11-17T15:37:42-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05647"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg05619"
author_name: "Ian Plosker"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-11-17T15:37:42-08:00
---


Sagar,

The beauty of Riak's use of consistent hashing is that you don't have to worry 
about the exact location of your data. It is automatically replicated to `n` 
vnodes (default: 3). You can specify a write quorum value, `w`. Writes won't be 
considered successful until they have been written to `w` vnodes. I suggest you 
read the following section of the wiki: 
http://wiki.basho.com/Tunable-CAP-Controls-in-Riak.html. You may want review 
the entire Riak Fast Track (http://wiki.basho.com/The-Riak-Fast-Track.html); it 
will get you up to speed on the basics of Riak.

Ian Plosker
Developer Advocate
Basho Technologies

On Nov 17, 2011, at 1:59 AM, Sagar Virani wrote:

&gt; Respected Sir/Madam,
&gt; 
&gt; I want to know whether we can get the exact location of the data that is 
&gt; placed on to the Riak Cluster. Say, for example, the cluster consists of 100 
&gt; nodes viz. n1 to n100. We put some data, say, d1 from the node n5. The 
&gt; replication parameter is 3. The riak sends this data to say, nodes n35 and 
&gt; stores it. This will be replicated on n36 and n37 (considering all the nodes 
&gt; is the cluster are up all the time). I want to know that whether we can know 
&gt; from Riak about this that d1 resides on nodes n35, n36 and n37? 
&gt; 
&gt; It is a distributed database and this kind of functionality should not be 
&gt; there as it can be very dangerous but i want to implement such thing in my 
&gt; project and trying to find whether its possible or not with Riak.
&gt; 
&gt; Regards,
&gt; 
&gt; Sagar Virani
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

