---
title: "Re: if_not_modified"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-11-10T09:32:10-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg09279"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg09250"
author_name: "Sean Cribbs"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-11-10T09:32:10-08:00
---


Elias,

I'm not convinced that either the quorum or the number of nodes has
any significance to the appearance of that problem. In order for the
if\_not\_modified to work over PBC, the submitted vector clock must be
equal to the one that Riak finds. As you say, the internal get for
purposes of this comparison does not currently pass through any R/PR
quorum parameters and so will use the bucket defaults.

So, it seems like the correct semantics would be to compare whether
the partial orders of the vclocks relate, instead of being strictly
equal. It would be probably be valid to continue the PUT if both
replies from the internal get are older than the submitted vclock.

Am I following your line of reasoning correctly?

On Thu, Nov 8, 2012 at 11:19 AM, Elias Levy  wrote:
&gt; Sean,
&gt;
&gt; Thanks for the explanation.
&gt;
&gt; One last follow up. During testing I noticed that when using if\_not\_modified
&gt; against a test cluster with a node using the PB interface and the Ruby
&gt; client, if the bucket had an n\_val greater than the number of nodes, the put
&gt; would fail with 'modified' error, even when you use a W, DW, and PW of 1.
&gt;
&gt; Presumably this is because the internal get performed by the if\_not\_modified
&gt; check within Riak uses the default R value, which is quorum, so if the
&gt; default n\_val of 3 is used, it expect at least 2 replies, whereas there is
&gt; only one node available. Thus the get will fail.
&gt;
&gt; While a failure may be expected in this situation, the fact that is comes
&gt; back as a stale write error is confusing, as the data is not really stale.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Thu, Nov 8, 2012 at 10:48 AM, Sean Cribbs  wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Elias,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; The resulting strategy of allow\_mult=false and last\_write\_wins=false
&gt;&gt; (which is a simplification for developer-friendliness mostly):
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; 1) Resolve differences using the vector clock first.
&gt;&gt; 2) If siblings still exist, return the one with the latest timestamp.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; So in a sense, it's a combination of vector-clock resolution and
&gt;&gt; resolution by timestamp. This might be ok if your write rate is small,
&gt;&gt; meaning that writes are unlikely to conflict; the upshot is that you
&gt;&gt; don't have to worry about resolution. However, in general we suggest
&gt;&gt; developers think about resolution strategies during development and
&gt;&gt; then use allow\_mult=true in production.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;



-- 
Sean Cribbs 
Software Engineer
Basho Technologies, Inc.
http://basho.com/

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

