---
title: "Re: have a new node take over the role of a downed,	unrecoverable node?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-10-16T14:05:30-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01314"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg01313"
author_name: "Alexander Sicular"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-10-16T14:05:30-07:00
---


This has come up before. "Leave" is what is currently available and
needs to be run on the node that wants to leave. This, of course,
means the node needs to be available. What you really want is a kick
like "remove" or something that doesn't exist yet, afaik. I think
there is a ticket open.

-alexander

On 2010-10-16, Jesse Newland  wrote:
&gt; The description of leave on the wiki mentions that it "causes the node to
&gt; leave the cluster it participates in" - I assume "the node" refers to the
&gt; node this command is run on? How would I "leave" a node that I can't run
&gt; this command on anymore?
&gt;
&gt; Regards -
&gt;
&gt; Jesse Newland
&gt; ---
&gt; je...@railsmachine.com
&gt; 404.216.1093
&gt;
&gt; On Oct 16, 2010, at 3:16 PM, Sean Cribbs wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; `leave` is exactly what you want to do then. Once the old node has left
&gt;&gt; (use `ringready` to track its exit), add the new neode.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; If the EBS volume containing the node's data was not lost, you could mount
&gt;&gt; it onto the new node to save some recovery time, and then reip. However,
&gt;&gt; you'll need to reip on all machines.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt;&gt; Developer Advocate
&gt;&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt;&gt; http://basho.com/
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Oct 16, 2010, at 2:54 PM, Jesse Newland wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; I'm running through some disaster scenarios before bringing a riak
&gt;&gt;&gt; cluster into production, and have run into a scenario that I can't work
&gt;&gt;&gt; through the proper resolution for just yet:
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Say an ec2 instance that was a part of a ring went away quickly, and data
&gt;&gt;&gt; from it was unrecoverable.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; How might I go about telling the rest of the ring that a new instance
&gt;&gt;&gt; that I've brought up should take over the vnodes that were on that old
&gt;&gt;&gt; instance? This sounds like a job for `riak-admin reip`, but after running
&gt;&gt;&gt; `reip downed\_node new\_node`, `riak-admin ringready` still shows that the
&gt;&gt;&gt; old nodes are a part of the ring and down. I guess what I'd like to do is
&gt;&gt;&gt; a posthumeous `leave`?
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Thoughts?
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Regards -
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Jesse Newland
&gt;&gt;&gt; ---
&gt;&gt;&gt; je...@railsmachine.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; 404.216.1093
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;

-- 
Sent from my mobile device

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

