---
title: "Re: Riak on SmartOs won't start"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-09-20T11:54:58-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08614"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg08611"
author_name: "Callixte Cauchois"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-09-20T11:54:58-07:00
---


So I removed the installed packages, removed user, group, logs and data. I
then installed the package you mentioned pkg\_add. I first thought it did
not work, but it just took a long time to come alive. It now works.

Thanks for your help.

On Thu, Sep 20, 2012 at 11:09 AM, Jared Morrow  wrote:

&gt; Callixte,
&gt;
&gt; At first glance, your app.config has several issues. Was this app.config
&gt; was the one from the SmartOS Riak package, or did you make edits of our
&gt; (Basho's) SmartOS package? I'd recommend trying our package
&gt; http://s3.amazonaws.com/downloads.basho.com/riak/CURRENT/smartos/11/riak-1.2.0-SmartOS-i386.tgzafter
&gt; force removal of Joyent's packages. If you don't want to do that,
&gt; attached is what a default app.config should look like on SmartOS machine.
&gt; Put that in `/opt/local/etc/riak` and let us know if things get better for
&gt; you.
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; Jared
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Thu, Sep 20, 2012 at 11:33 AM, Callixte Cauchois  &gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Here are:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; 1. the riak console output
&gt;&gt; 2. the app.config
&gt;&gt; 3. the vm.args
&gt;&gt; 4. the erl\_crash.dump.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Thu, Sep 20, 2012 at 10:04 AM, Sean Carey  wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Could you send along your erlang crash log and config files?
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; On Wednesday, September 19, 2012 at 2:59 PM, Callixte Cauchois wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Hello,
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; I am trying to get riak working on SmartOs using Joyent provided dataset
&gt;&gt;&gt; (399e09fc-c448-11e1-b3c8-a3d517dfbb07 smartos 2012-07-02
&gt;&gt;&gt; sdc:sdc:riak:1.6.1).
&gt;&gt;&gt; It doesn't start. When using riak console, I get this error message:
&gt;&gt;&gt; 18:48:37.011 [error] CRASH REPORT Process riak\_core\_handoff\_listener
&gt;&gt;&gt; with 1 neighbours exited with reason: bad argument in gen\_server:init\_it/6
&gt;&gt;&gt; line 328
&gt;&gt;&gt; /opt/local/lib/riak/lib/os\_mon-2.2.9/priv/bin/memsup: Erlang has closed.
&gt;&gt;&gt; I have created the vm with a very simple json:
&gt;&gt;&gt; {
&gt;&gt;&gt; "alias": "riak1",
&gt;&gt;&gt; "brand": "joyent",
&gt;&gt;&gt; "dataset\_uuid": "399e09fc-c448-11e1-b3c8-a3d517dfbb07",
&gt;&gt;&gt; "max\_physical\_memory": 2048,
&gt;&gt;&gt; "nics": [
&gt;&gt;&gt; {
&gt;&gt;&gt; "nic\_tag": "admin",
&gt;&gt;&gt; "ip": "dhcp"
&gt;&gt;&gt; }
&gt;&gt;&gt; ]
&gt;&gt;&gt; }
&gt;&gt;&gt; It is riak v.1.1.4. I tried to upgrade to 1.2.0 using the compiled
&gt;&gt;&gt; package and got the same error.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Am I missing something?
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Thanks.
&gt;&gt;&gt; Callixte.
&gt;&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

