---
title: "Re: upgrade process?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-11-23T07:59:01-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01609"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg01607"
author_name: "Colin Surprenant"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-11-23T07:59:01-08:00
---


On Tue, Nov 23, 2010 at 10:18 AM, David Smith  wrote:
&gt; In our internal testing we have started verifying that
&gt; sequential releases (i.e. 0.12 -&gt; 0.13) support the rolling upgrades
&gt; cleanly.

Great stuff. May I suggest to add this fact into the rolling upgrade wiki page?

&gt; Given the leap of the upgrade you are describing, I would \_strongly\_
&gt; recommend setting up a test environment that's as similar to your
&gt; production as possible (load, data set, etc). As I noted in my
&gt; previous email, it should work, but I can't guarantee it. :)

Would upgrading (rolling or offline) sequentially from 0.10 to 0.11 to
0.12 be "easier" to manage potential compatibility issues?

&gt; I'd note that if you're using bitcask, you can do such a backup
&gt; without ever stopping the server. Innostore is less straightforward,
&gt; unfortunately.

I'm using innostore, with a 3 nodes cluster holding ~250GB of data
each. Using the riak-admin backup/restore is just too slow to be
usable in my environment. Would innodump/innoload be any faster? Could
I consider setting up a new 0.13 ring, use innodump on my 0.10 nodes
and innoload on the 0.13??

&gt; My vagueness re: 0.10 -&gt; 0.13 was driven by the simple reality that we
&gt; haven't tested it formally and we don't have a policy of testing an
&gt; upgrade across that many versions.

I understand. The last time I checked, Riak was still a version 0.xx
right? ;) Seriously, It's great news that you guys are taking better
care of the upgrade process starting at 0.12.

Thanks for your support,
Colin

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

