---
title: "Re: Getting all the Keys"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-01-28T12:49:56-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg02143"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg02065"
author_name: "Sean Cribbs"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-01-28T12:49:56-08:00
---


Those are some ways, yes. Generally there are one or more keys that are 
"known" -- usernames, device identifiers, etc -- which then have references or 
in some other way inform the application about how to find other keys. This is 
why links and link-walking were some of the earliest available features of Riak.

Sean Cribbs 
Developer Advocate
Basho Technologies, Inc.
http://basho.com/

On Jan 28, 2011, at 3:07 PM, Marcin Krol wrote:

&gt; -----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
&gt; Hash: SHA1
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; I'm playing with riak to see what it's good for, so I need to ask:
&gt; 
&gt; Sean Cribbs wrote:
&gt;&gt; To understand why listing keys is difficult, you have to understand Riak's 
&gt;&gt; (and Dynamo's) original design motivations:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; \* To be basically available at all times for reads and writes, which in turn 
&gt;&gt; means to be tolerant of machine and network failures.
&gt;&gt; \* To provide low-latency random access to large data sets. (Note I didn't 
&gt;&gt; say an entire data set.)
&gt;&gt; \* To scale linearly with minimal operational complexity.
&gt; 
&gt; This begs the question: so how DO people know their keys, in practice?
&gt; Apart from trivial cases like including those keys in pregenerated HTML
&gt; pages, so when user clicks the link, riak is queried for that key?
&gt; 
&gt; Do people generate their keys from some templates, like searching a
&gt; bucket "city-zip\_code" would generate a range of keys like
&gt; "london\_w2qsomething" to "london\_somethingelse" ?
&gt; 
&gt; This may look silly to you, but I'm trying to get to grips with idea how
&gt; riak is \*actually used\* in querying.
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; - --
&gt; 
&gt; Regards,
&gt; mk
&gt; 
&gt; - --
&gt; Premature optimization is the root of all fun.
&gt; -----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
&gt; Version: GnuPG v1.4.9 (MingW32)
&gt; Comment: Using GnuPG with Mozilla - http://enigmail.mozdev.org/
&gt; 
&gt; iQEcBAEBAgAGBQJNQyH/AAoJEFMgHzhQQ7hOqcoH/itq5jVuBr4ZCnDP06G2tae0
&gt; nQMIarWOS8rIVqEB6vv99AKggoW9FGCBfR4uOjKzZIv5QgSGWcvvQlcP1hqj3kmD
&gt; SfKkLKxP7iEDK+w+D/tHlYTuuMkc0PBI2crWtKj6VB6/bPl7eP9SPJBr9Qh86M4l
&gt; 6KWbQpufkpAKvroJ0odos9qO6bozqM1afUaN0m7v183ghGhUl6TJZ21DDylahNx0
&gt; MfOox0hl3vxJoUff+qsJiBas2XyD0hBm8vaFux8XhCFermXqgdLHmrHfawzPBpQi
&gt; JLwYTfq25Kj/xFhyDE4uXLRoH8BHGeRCVwpmTvnvGQyvhMoEz+959kE3WFW41yE=
&gt; =sjMV
&gt; -----END PGP SIGNATURE-----
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

