---
title: "Performance issues with small dataset"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-01-12T17:34:21-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01966"
author_name: "Alexander Staubo"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-01-12T17:34:21-08:00
---


I'm experimenting with a test dataset to gauge whether Riak is
suitable for a particular app. My real dataset has millions of
records, but I'm testing with just a thousand items, and
unfortunately, I am getting horrible performance -- so horrible it
can't possibly be right. What am I doing wrong?

My environment:

\* Riak 0.14 with default config
\* Sean Cribb's Ruby client
\* MacOS X Snow Leopard
\* Ruby 1.9.2
\* Erlang R14B01 from MacPorts

I am testing with a single node on my MacBook, which should be enough
for just a thousand key/value-pairs. These tests are run on an
initially empty database, from a single Ruby app. Each test has been
run at least 10 times consecutively to eliminate outliers and ensure
optimal cache fill.

Here are some numbers:

\* 9.6 seconds to store 1,000 items. They are loaded from a text file
as JSON data. Parsing/processing overhead is about 0.8 s, the rest is
Riak. In JSON format, the items total 570 KB. The resultant Bitcask
data directory is 3.9 MB.
\* 0.3 seconds to list all keys in the bucket [1].
\* 1.8 seconds to list all keys and then fetch each object [2].
\* 1.5 seconds to run a very simple map/reduce query [3].

Here's something else that is weird. I repeated the steps above on a
new, empty bucket, again using just 1,000 items, but after loading 1.5
million items into a separate, empty bucket. The numbers now are very
odd:

\* 4.5 seconds to list all keys.
\* 6.5 seconds to list + fetch.
\* 5.1 seconds to run map/reduce query.

Why are operations on the small bucket suddenly worse in the presence
of a separate, large bucket? Surely the key spaces are completely
separate? Even listing keys or querying on an \*empty\* bucket is taking
several seconds in this scenario.

So are these timings appropriate for such a tiny dataset, and if not,
what could I be doing wrong? I'm new to Riak and I'm not sure if the
map/reduce-query is optimally expressed, so maybe that could be fixed.
Even so, storage and key-querying performance seems off by perhaps an
order of magnitude.

I have confirmed the performance issue on an Amazon EC2 instance
running Ubuntu Maverick, where performance was in fact considerably
worse.

[1] Just looping over bucket.keys.

[2] Basically: bucket.keys { |keys| keys.each { |key| bucket.get(key) } }

[3] Here's the query code. Each stored item is a JSON hash from which
a key ("path") is mapped, then reduced to aggregate the counts of each
path.

 mr = Riak::MapReduce.new(client)
 mr.add("test")
 mr.map &lt;&lt;-end, :keep =&gt; false
 function(v) {
 var paths = [];
 var entry = Riak.mapValuesJson(v)[0];
 var out = {};
 out[entry.path] = 1;
 paths.push(out);
 return paths;
 }
 end
 mr.reduce &lt;&lt;-end.strip, :keep =&gt; true
 function(values) {
 var result = {};
 for (var i = 0; i &lt; values.length; i++) {
 var table = values[i];
 for (var k in table) {
 var count = table[k];
 if (result[k]) {
 result[k] += count;
 } else {
 result[k] = count;
 }
 }
 }
 return [result];
 }
 end
 results = mr.run

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

