---
title: "Re: Social network data / Graph properties of Riak"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-11-18T08:07:09-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05659"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg05657"
author_name: "Eric Moritz"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-11-18T08:07:09-08:00
---


If you're storing the graph in a graph database where you're simply
connecting keys to other keys and then you store the actual properties
in Riak identified by those keys, then yes Riak will be a fine
solution for you.

For instance, you traverse the graph using a graph db, collecting a
list of keys you want the properties for and then load the property
documents for the keys you collected.

Is that what you're envisioning?

Eric.

On Fri, Nov 18, 2011 at 10:38 AM, Jeroen van Dijk
 wrote:
&gt; Hi all,
&gt; I'm currently evaluating whether Riak would fit as the main storage of my
&gt; current project, a social network. The reason I am attracted to Riak and
&gt; less to a Graph database as main storage is that I want the easy horizontal
&gt; scalability and multi-site replication that Riak provides. The only thing I
&gt; doubt is whether the key-value/link model of Riak is flexible enough to be
&gt; able to store a property graph (http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.2361). I am not
&gt; asking whether the querying/graph traversing will be easy; I'm probably
&gt; going to use a graph database or a Pregel like platform (e.g.
&gt; http://www.goldenorbos.org/) for that problem. I guess my main question is
&gt; whether it would be easy/feasible to import and export a property graph in
&gt; and from Riak? Has someone done this before?
&gt; I realize the above might be too specific, so here are two more questions
&gt; that I think are relevant:
&gt; - Is there a known upper limit of links that can be stored (I don't want to
&gt; add them all at once so 1000 per request is fine,
&gt;  http://lists.basho.com/pipermail/riak-users\_lists.basho.com/2010-March/000786.html)
&gt; - Is there a way to add meta data to links (edges)? E.g. weigths and other
&gt; attributes.
&gt; Any other ideas or advise are also highly appreciated.
&gt; Cheers,
&gt; Jeroen
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

