---
title: "Re: Delete bucket?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-07-28T14:46:31-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04127"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04123"
author_name: "Jonathan Langevin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-07-28T14:46:31-07:00
---


I'm thinking that was more a problem in the usage of curl in Ripple, than a
problem with the curl client, as it appears the issue was the same handle
being used for multiple requests prior to the initial request actually being
completed, correct?

\*

Jonathan Langevin
Systems Administrator
Loom Inc.
Wilmington, NC: (910) 241-0433 - jlange...@loomlearning.com -
www.loomlearning.com - Skype: intel352
\*


On Thu, Jul 28, 2011 at 5:20 PM, Sean Cribbs  wrote:

&gt; Not sure if it's a problem in PHP (and should go without saying), but make
&gt; sure to open a new connection when performing additional client requests
&gt; (like a delete) while receiving a streamed response. Otherwise you might run
&gt; into a case of "accidental concurrency" like I did (see also
&gt; http://seancribbs.com/tech/2011/03/08/how-ripple-uses-fibers/). If your
&gt; client has a proper connection pool/stack this should not be a problem.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Thu, Jul 28, 2011 at 5:11 PM, Jonathan Langevin &lt;
&gt; jlange...@loomlearning.com&gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Ah, nice. Checked the js client, which mentioned that ?keys=stream is a
&gt;&gt; valid option to result in streamed key listings.
&gt;&gt; I'll get that implemented in my PHP client, thanks for the pointer :-)
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Jonathan Langevin
&gt;&gt; Systems Administrator
&gt;&gt; Loom Inc.
&gt;&gt; Wilmington, NC: (910) 241-0433 - jlange...@loomlearning.com -
&gt;&gt; www.loomlearning.com - Skype: intel352
&gt;&gt; \*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Thu, Jul 28, 2011 at 4:42 PM, Jeremiah Peschka &lt;
&gt;&gt; jeremiah.pesc...@gmail.com&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Depending on the client you're using, you can perform results streaming
&gt;&gt;&gt; to pull back results and process them in chunks rather than waiting for a
&gt;&gt;&gt; buffer to get filled.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; It's easy enough to write something like this using Ripple or
&gt;&gt;&gt; CorrugatedIron. I'm guessing it's possible with other clients.
&gt;&gt;&gt; ---
&gt;&gt;&gt; Jeremiah Peschka
&gt;&gt;&gt; Founder, Brent Ozar PLF, LLC
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; On Jul 28, 2011, at 1:40 PM, Jonathan Langevin wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; I've read on the wiki that to delete a bucket, the only method is to
&gt;&gt;&gt; manually delete all keys within the bucket.
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; So then what is the recommended process for deleting all keys within a
&gt;&gt;&gt; bucket, manually?
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; I was initially just listing all keys within a bucket, and then
&gt;&gt;&gt; iterating the keys to send delete requests, but I hit a wall when I had too
&gt;&gt;&gt; many keys to get back in a list request (received header too large errors).
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; So I assume the alternative would be to run a mapreduce to pull keys
&gt;&gt;&gt; from the bucket with a specified limit, to then execute the deletes?
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; While that's fine for an "active record" style environment (where there
&gt;&gt;&gt; may be cleanup actions that must occur per object being deleted), is there
&gt;&gt;&gt; another method for deleting all keys within a bucket, massively? (Maybe via
&gt;&gt;&gt; a map call?)
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; Jonathan Langevin
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; Systems Administrator
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; Loom Inc.
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; Wilmington, NC: (910) 241-0433 - jlange...@loomlearning.com -
&gt;&gt;&gt; www.loomlearning.com - Skype: intel352
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt; Developer Advocate
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; http://www.basho.com/
&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

