---
title: "Re: riaksearch: using index docs in place of real objects"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-05-26T12:42:01-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03440"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg03417"
author_name: "Eric Moritz"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-05-26T12:42:01-07:00
---


Out of curiosity what is the key in this URL?
http://riak.host:8098/riak/\_rsid\_/key

On Thu, May 26, 2011 at 9:42 AM, Mathias Meyer  wrote:
&gt; Greg,
&gt;
&gt; Riak Search stores indexed documents in Riak KV too, as serialized Erlang 
&gt; terms. You can easily verify that by requesting a document from 
&gt; http://riak.host:8098/riak/\_rsid\_/key.
&gt;
&gt; So whenever you query something through the Solr interface the documents you 
&gt; get back are fetched from these buckets, and therefore the same distribution 
&gt; and consistency properties apply to them as to objects stored directly in 
&gt; Riak KV. Bottom line is there's nothing wrong with just using them instead of 
&gt; fetching them again from Riak KV.
&gt;
&gt; Mathias Meyer
&gt; Developer Advocate, Basho Technologies
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Mittwoch, 25. Mai 2011 at 00:34, Greg Pascale wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; In our data model, our riak objects are flat JSON objects, and thus their 
&gt;&gt; corresponding index documents are nearly identical - the only difference is 
&gt;&gt; that a few fields which are ints in the riak objects are strings in the 
&gt;&gt; index doc.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Since they are so similar, we are directly using the index docs returned 
&gt;&gt; from our search call, skipping the second step of doing gets on the returned 
&gt;&gt; keys to retrieve the real objects.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Is this advisable? Are there any circumstances under which we might run into 
&gt;&gt; consistency issues?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt; -Greg
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

