---
title: "Re: Range Loop Timeout Error after (after disk space over limit)"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-07-18T13:40:18-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07988"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg07987"
author_name: "Arnaud Wetzel"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-07-18T13:40:18-07:00
---


Actually I had never seen this error before, and dont see it anymore now
(maybe it was because of the migration to 1.2.0-rc1). The problem is
difficult to describe because there are different errors every time I make
tests : here is a list of them (error appears during uncorrelated riak
search queries) :
 {{nocatch,stream\_timeout},[{riak\_search\_op\_utils,gather\_stream\_results,4}]}
(correlated with other errors)
{{badmatch,{error,emfile}},[{mi\_segment,iterate\_by\_keyinfo,7},{mi\_server,'-lookup/8-lc$^1/1-1-',4},{mi\_server,'-lookup/8-lc$^1/1-1-',4},{mi\_server,lookup,8}]}

After the migration to 1.2.0-rc1 I saw (never saw this error before, that's
why it's not in the first mail) :
{{badfun,#Fun},[{mi\_server,iterate,6},{mi\_server,lookup,8}]}

But the main error (the one that appears most often) is :
{error,{throw,{timeout,range\_loop},[{riak\_search\_backend,collect\_info\_response,3},{riak\_search\_op\_term,info,3},{riak\_search\_op\_term,preplan,2},{riak\_search\_op,'-preplan/2-lc$^0/1-0-',2},{riak\_search\_op\_intersection,preplan,2},{riak\_search\_op,'-preplan/2-lc$^0/1-0-',2},{riak\_search\_op,'-preplan/2-lc$^0/1-0-',2},{riak\_search\_op\_intersection,preplan,2}]}}

My riak cluster has 5 nodes, now they all use the 1.2.0-rc1 version of
Riak, with default configuration in app.config. The ulimit is 2048 for all
nodes.
To avoid error during indexing, I had in vm.arg :
-env ERL\_MAX\_ETS\_TABLES 50000

On each node there is approximately :
- 53G of merge\_index data
- 26G of bitcast data
There are around two hundred different riak search indexes.

The errors began after indexing many documents into riak search (there were
3 nodes), a node reached is disk capacity so I had to add 2 nodes, then
restart the indexation that succeed, but the errors describe above starts
on some random search queries.

Thank you very much for your answer, I will try the repair command on every
partitions tonight.

Regards.

2012/7/18 Ryan Zezeski 

&gt; The `badfun` is a new error. That wasn't in your original email. I'm not
&gt; sure why you are seeing that. Are all your Riak nodes using 1.2.0-rc1?
&gt; Can you give me more information on your cluster setup? Are there any
&gt; other errors in you logs? The more information the more I can help.
&gt;
&gt; The repair "command" is not actually available from the command line yet.
&gt; You need to attach to the Riak console to access it. The APIs are
&gt; `riak\_kv\_vnode:repair(PartitionNumber)` and
&gt; `riak\_search\_vnode:repair(PartitionNumber)`.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Wed, Jul 18, 2012 at 1:02 PM, Arnaud Wetzel wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Ryan,
&gt;&gt; Increasing "ulimit -n" (current value is 4096, I have tested from 1024 to
&gt;&gt; 200000) does not change anything, always the same errors :
&gt;&gt; {timeout,range\_loop}
&gt;&gt; lookup/range failure:
&gt;&gt; {{badfun,#Fun},[{mi\_server,iterate,6},{mi\_server,lookup,8}]}
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I cannot find the command "repair" that you talk about in your email (on
&gt;&gt; riak1.2.0-rc1), is it a function directly in an erlang module and not
&gt;&gt; accessible yet with riak-admin ?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thank you very much.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; Arnaud Wetzel
&gt;&gt; KBRW Ad-Venture
&gt;&gt; 13 rue st Anastase, 75003 Paris
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; 2012/7/16 Ryan Zezeski 
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Arnaud,
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; The 'stream\_timeout' and 'emfile' should be correlated. Whenever you
&gt;&gt;&gt; see the 'emfile' you should see a corresponding timeout. The index server
&gt;&gt;&gt; errors causing the result collector to timeout later. First, adjust your
&gt;&gt;&gt; file descriptor limit and then go from there.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; For the 1.2 release a "repair" command has been added to rebuild KV or
&gt;&gt;&gt; index data for a given partition. In releases before that you must reindex
&gt;&gt;&gt; all your data. You don't have to worry about removing the current indexes
&gt;&gt;&gt; as merge index will garbage collect that for you as it merges. As I said,
&gt;&gt;&gt; first I would fix the 'emfile' issue and then see if further action is
&gt;&gt;&gt; needed.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; -Z
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; P.S. If you want to be absolutely sure what your FD limit is in Riak you
&gt;&gt;&gt; can `riak attach` and then `os:cmd("ulimit -n").` Make sure to use Ctrl-D
&gt;&gt;&gt; to exit from the Riak shell.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; On Mon, Jul 16, 2012 at 5:21 AM, Arnaud Wetzel 
&gt;&gt;&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Hi,
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Friday evening one of our riak node has reach his disk space limit
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; during indexing in riak-search. Then after adding some nodes, some requests
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; fail, and it is impossible to find the correlation between requests with
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; error or those who succeed.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; The errors are :
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; {{nocatch,stream\_timeout},[{riak\_search\_op\_utils,gather\_stream\_results,4}]}
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; {timeout,range\_loop}
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; and sometimes (not always) :
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; {{badmatch,{error,emfile}},[{mi\_segment,iterate\_by\_keyinfo,7},{mi\_server,'-lookup/8-lc$^1/1-1-',4},{mi\_server,'-lookup/8-lc$^1/1-1-',4},{mi\_server,lookup,8}]}
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; So anyone else has experienced these errors ? Is it possible that they
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; come from the disk over limit error ? How can I try to repair merge index
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; data ? If it is not possible, what is the good process to delete entirely
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; all the indexes (only indexes, keeping riak datas).
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Thank you very much.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Regards.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Arnaud Wetzel
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; KBRW Ad-Venture
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 13 rue st Anastase, 75003 Paris
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

