---
title: "Re: RiakSearch Reached Its Limit and gave below Error .."
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-10-31T08:19:24-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01425"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg01422"
author_name: "Rusty Klophaus"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-10-31T08:19:24-07:00
---


Hi Prometheus,

This is a known issue, tracked here (https://issues.basho.com/790) and high
on the list for the next release.

The summary is that when putting data into Riak Search too quickly, it will
build up a backlog of files waiting to be compacted. Each file maintains its
own separate ETS table, and this causes the system to run out of tables.

You can quickly check how many files Riak Search has open using "find
./data/merge\_index | wc -l". Ideally, during indexing there should be &lt;15
per partition. If this grows much beyond that, it's a sign to slow down
indexing.

Best,
Rusty

On Sun, Oct 31, 2010 at 6:13 AM, Prometheus WillSurvive &lt;
prometheus.willsurv...@gmail.com&gt; wrote:

&gt; I put the ERL\_MAX\_ETS\_TABLES in vm.args and restart riaksearch its ok
&gt; now..
&gt;
&gt; thanks..
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Oct 31, 2010, at 11:38 AM, Ulf Wiger wrote:
&gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; It looks as if it is the ets:new/2 operation that fails due to
&gt; system\_limit.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Like with the number of concurrently running processes, the system limit
&gt; &gt; is by default pretty low (1400 tables), but can be increased by setting
&gt; the
&gt; &gt; OS environment variable ERL\_MAX\_ETS\_TABLES.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Now, I have no idea if Riak Search is supposed to need tons of ets
&gt; &gt; tables. I know of situations where reaching the ets system limit can be a
&gt; &gt; symptom of growing backlog in the system - e.g. if mnesia is falling
&gt; behind,
&gt; &gt; since every pending mnesia transaction keeps at least one ets table for
&gt; &gt; the temporary transaction store.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; BR,
&gt; &gt; Ulf W
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; On 31 Oct 2010, at 09:23, Prometheus WillSurvive wrote:
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; Hi,
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; We started a batch index test (wikipedia) when we reached around 600K
&gt; docs system gave below error.. Any idea ?
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; We can not index any more doc in this index.
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; =ERROR REPORT==== 31-Oct-2010::10:22:42 ===
&gt; &gt;&gt; \*\* Too many db tables \*\*
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; DEBUG: riak\_search\_dir\_indexer:197 - "{ error , Type , Error , erlang :
&gt; get\_stacktrace ( ) }"
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; {error,error,system\_limit,
&gt; &gt;&gt; [{ets,new,[batch,[protected,duplicate\_bag]]},
&gt; &gt;&gt; {riak\_search\_client,process\_terms\_1,5},
&gt; &gt;&gt; {riak\_search\_client,process\_terms\_1,5},
&gt; &gt;&gt; {riak\_search\_client,index\_docs,3},
&gt; &gt;&gt; {riak\_search\_client,index\_docs,2},
&gt; &gt;&gt; {riak\_solr\_search\_client,run\_solr\_command,4},
&gt; &gt;&gt; {solr\_search,'-index\_dir/2-lc$^0/1-0-',2},
&gt; &gt;&gt; {riak\_search\_dir\_indexer,worker\_loop,5}]}
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; =ERROR REPORT==== 31-Oct-2010::10:22:44 ===
&gt; &gt;&gt; Error in process &lt;0.22187.14&gt; on node 'riaksea...@192.168.250.154' with
&gt; exit value: {system\_limit,[{riak\_search\_dir\_indexer,worker\_loop,5}]}
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; RPC to 'riaksea...@192.168.250.154' failed: {'EXIT',
&gt; &gt;&gt; {system\_limit,
&gt; &gt;&gt; [{riak\_search\_dir\_indexer,
&gt; &gt;&gt; worker\_loop,5}]}}
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Ulf Wiger, CTO, Erlang Solutions, Ltd.
&gt; &gt; http://erlang-solutions.com
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

