---
title: "Re: Java client key existence"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-07-28T11:33:22-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08111"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg08110"
author_name: "Mark Phillips"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-07-28T11:33:22-07:00
---




Mark


On Jul 28, 2012, at 10:55, Parnell Springmeyer  wrote:

&gt; The client might not support that, I don't know. I know the Python client (at 
&gt; least the version I'm using) also does a full GET of the object.
&gt; 
&gt; Here's the kicker though, I'm using LevelDB for the backend and LevelDB is 
&gt; notorious for having poor read performance when you're trying to GET a key 
&gt; that doesn't exist (checking for existence). So, don't do it if you're using 
&gt; LevelDB.
&gt; 

It's worth noting that the version of LevelDB in 1.2 (which will be official 
Very Soon Now) will have much more efficient not-found look ups thanks to the 
addition of bloom filters [1]. 

I don't have the actual performance data handy but we should be posting some 
info on that other improvements on the blog before too long. 

Don't give up on Level just yet :)

Mark 

[1] https://github.com/basho/riak/blob/1.2/RELEASE-NOTES.md


&gt; Bitcask is another story though, since all the keys are in memory so that 
&gt; lookup is constant time (I believe, unless your key space is going into swap, 
&gt; but that shouldn't happen).
&gt; 
&gt; On Jul 28, 2012, at 11:44 AM, Ukyo Virgden wrote:
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Hi, 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Just installed riak and trying to get adjusted. Having looked at the java 
&gt;&gt; client, I could not tell if there' a way to check key exixtence. What I need 
&gt;&gt; to do is to check if a key exists and put it if it doesn't. In HTTP request 
&gt;&gt; from curl, a HEAD request instead of a GET gives the result I need. 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; How can I check the existence of a key from java client without making a 
&gt;&gt; full fetch?
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Thanks.
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

