---
title: "Re: Riak Development Environments"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-03-28T13:36:13-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg02763"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg02762"
author_name: "Alexander Sicular"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-03-28T13:36:13-07:00
---


I just spin up brand new ubuntu 32 or 64 bit instances on my mac pro w 16gb 
ram. That's all I need for dev and/or prototyping. Obviously load testing is a 
different animal.


On Mar 28, 2011, at 1:30 PM, Ryan Zezeski wrote:

&gt; At my current job I've had the luxury of 4 dell poweredge servers (CentOS, 
&gt; 128GB, 1-2TB disk, 16-core).
&gt; 
&gt; However, I've been seriously considering either buying some old 1Us and 
&gt; building my own rack in the basement OR 3 used mac mini's from eBay (I'm 
&gt; single so I can do stuff like this). The nice thing about mini's is they 
&gt; travel...plus they're so darn cute. The nice thing about an actual rack is 
&gt; it is (probably?) closer to real production deployments.
&gt; 
&gt; I'm also tempted to use older hardware just b/c if you can make it more 
&gt; efficient there then the shinier stuff \_should\_ automatically get a boost. 
&gt; Although I supposed stuff like NUMA vs. SMP could bite you? I'm curious to 
&gt; hear what others think.
&gt; 
&gt; Mark, are you allowed to share any statistics related to the setups of actual 
&gt; production users?
&gt; 
&gt; -Ryan
&gt; 
&gt; On Mon, Mar 28, 2011 at 3:27 PM, Mark Phillips  wrote:
&gt; I was going to make this part of today's Recap, but upon further
&gt; thinking I concluded that it might deserve its own thread...
&gt; 
&gt; @wmacgyver, @russelldb, and some others exchanged a few messages on
&gt; Twitter yesterday about what dev setup they are using for their
&gt; respective Riak work.
&gt; 
&gt; wmacgyver's response was: "3 macmini server 2.66ghz with 8gb, raid 1
&gt; 500gb=your own ec2 7.5gb node with 500gb ebs. Every dev has a set."
&gt; [1]
&gt; 
&gt; Anyone else care to share their setup? Or have any questions about
&gt; what your dev setup should look like?
&gt; 
&gt; Mark
&gt; 
&gt; 1 - http://twitter.com/wmacgyver/statuses/52117875980386304
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

