---
title: "Re: Riak for eCommerce"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-01-20T10:46:58-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06340"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06337"
author_name: "Daniel Widgren"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-01-20T10:46:58-08:00
---


We did one for long time ago with Riak at Uppsala University. Not sure
if that will help you in any way.

But you can look at our report, and see if you find anything.

http://www.it.uu.se/edu/course/homepage/projektDV/ht09/CC\_product\_report.pdf

/ Daniel

2012/1/20 Sean Cribbs :
&gt; Be aware that the client quorums are only a restriction on what the client
&gt; will wait for. It is entirely possible for a write to succeed in the larger
&gt; case, but not meet the W/DW quorum requirements. That is, the request may
&gt; "fail" but the write may still occur.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Fri, Jan 20, 2012 at 10:01 AM, Dmitry Demeshchuk 
&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Generally, using eventually consistent databases for e-commerce sounds
&gt;&gt; too risky.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; But I know that there was some e-commerce stealth startup using Riak
&gt;&gt; for their needs (probably not for all the data though, I don't know
&gt;&gt; any details). Amazon uses Dynamo, which is quite similar to Riak. So
&gt;&gt; NoSQL can be used in this niche somehow.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Also, intuitively, most of the consistency problems might be avoided
&gt;&gt; by setting all w/dw values to maximum (better set r to maximum too, of
&gt;&gt; course).
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; The hardest task I see here is to organize transactions for the cases
&gt;&gt; like "we remove a product from database and we should alter all the
&gt;&gt; orders that contain this product".
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Fri, Jan 20, 2012 at 5:43 PM, Ahmed Al-Saadi 
&gt;&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt; &gt; Hello:
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; After reviewing a few options in the NoSQL space, I am considering using
&gt;&gt; &gt; Riak for an e-commerce platform. I gather that atomicity (transactions)
&gt;&gt; &gt; is
&gt;&gt; &gt; not supported while durability can be enforced per request (using dw=1
&gt;&gt; &gt; or,
&gt;&gt; &gt; at least, w=?). In other words, for most non-critical
&gt;&gt; &gt; reads/writes, r/w can be optimized for availability while critical
&gt;&gt; &gt; writes
&gt;&gt; &gt; must be committed to disk (or to "enough" nodes?), sacrificing
&gt;&gt; &gt; availability
&gt;&gt; &gt; in the process.
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; Does this describe the state-of-affairs or am I missing something?
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; --
&gt;&gt; &gt; Ahmed Al-Saadi
&gt;&gt; &gt; Sent with Sparrow
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; Best regards,
&gt;&gt; Dmitry Demeshchuk
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt; Software Engineer
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; http://basho.com/
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

