---
title: "RE: Number of nodes and links"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-05-15T18:36:57-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00380"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg00379"
author_name: "Chris Hicks"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-05-15T18:36:57-07:00
---



I'll take a look at that. Thank you for the advice.

&gt; Subject: Re: Number of nodes and links
&gt; From: sicul...@gmail.com
&gt; Date: Sat, 15 May 2010 20:12:26 -0400
&gt; CC: riak-users@lists.basho.com; pres...@synergyeoc.com
&gt; To: silent\_vende...@hotmail.com
&gt; 
&gt; Hi Chris, 
&gt; 
&gt; Chests in the presumably "Chest" bucket sounds like the container where all 
&gt; the contention will take place. What you describe would almost certainly 
&gt; require a bucket with allow\_mult=true and entail an enormous amount of 
&gt; transactional detection within your application and each of your players 
&gt; (clients) be uniquely named (X-Riak-ClientId).
&gt; 
&gt; What I would do in this scenario is pre-compute all those chest objects (it 
&gt; sounds like your'e already doing that) but put them in redis. In fairness, I 
&gt; do not know if Riak is where you want to do all that stuff. I would make each 
&gt; chest a key in redis as a set containing keys to all the individual items 
&gt; within that chest. Just pop the items off the set as requests come in. Redis 
&gt; guarantees atomic set operations. Once the client has it's loot key, just 
&gt; fetch it out of riak. If you absolutely insisted on using riak here, you 
&gt; would probably have to touch the loot item in the loot bucket by locking it 
&gt; somehow or flagging it as taken if you weren't confident in your 
&gt; transactional/chest locking solution.
&gt; 
&gt; I would continue to use riak as your long-term persistent data-store but in 
&gt; this specific use case I believe Riak is not the appropriate solution. Also, 
&gt; redis would be at least an order of magnitude faster. 
&gt; 
&gt; -Alexander
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On May 15, 2010, at 7:33 PM, Chris Hicks wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; &gt; First of thank you for the responses.
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; As far as the HTTP interface I don't plan on using that but will be 
&gt; &gt; connecting directly through Erlang, so that 8kb limit for that specific 
&gt; &gt; case, as far as I understand, won't affect me as much. I would like to get 
&gt; &gt; to understand the conflict handling a bit better as in my case I know that 
&gt; &gt; this is going to be something I will need to pay particular attention to.
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; I'd like to spell out a scenario that shows how I understand the process to 
&gt; &gt; work so that you guys can tell me I have it or I'm totally off base. To 
&gt; &gt; start let me say that the project I'm working on is a game, so imagine a 
&gt; &gt; chest with a number of items in it which is little more than a chest object 
&gt; &gt; with links to the specific items contained in the chest.
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; Player 1, Player 2 and Player 3 all decide to take something from the chest 
&gt; &gt; at the exact same time. They all retrieve version 0 (using version for 
&gt; &gt; simplicity) of the chest object from the DB. Player 1's 
&gt; &gt; connection/processing is lightning fast and they finish, updating the chest 
&gt; &gt; document to version 1. Player 2 & 3 finish at the same time and both try to 
&gt; &gt; update the chest document in the database, except that it has now changed 
&gt; &gt; and so there is a conflict. Now as far as I understand it you can tell the 
&gt; &gt; DB to return both versions and let the program handle it. Does that mean 
&gt; &gt; that both Player 2 and Player 3 will get version 1 of the document back 
&gt; &gt; along with their proposed modified version?
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; If that is the case it seems like I could, if I plan for it from the 
&gt; &gt; beginning, simply restart the processing for Player 2 and Player 3 with 
&gt; &gt; version 1 acting like the original document. In this way I could make sure 
&gt; &gt; that actions taken from a player are done, more-or-less, in a first come 
&gt; &gt; first serve basis. If the above is true does it matter how many revisions 
&gt; &gt; the document has undergone, as far as what is returned after a conflict?
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; By that I mean what happens if Player 4 tries to get something out of the 
&gt; &gt; chest at the same time as the other 3, only for some reason their 
&gt; &gt; processing is very very slow and Players 1, 2 and 3 all finish up 
&gt; &gt; completely and the chest document is at version 3 when player 4 tries to 
&gt; &gt; submit their document back to the D. Does Player 4 get version 3 of the 
&gt; &gt; document back along with their own proposed modified document?
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; How close am I as far as how the DB handles this?
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; Hotmail has tools for the New Busy. Search, chat and e-mail from your 
&gt; &gt; inbox. Learn more.
&gt; 
 
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
Hotmail is redefining busy with tools for the New Busy. Get more from your 
inbox.
http://www.windowslive.com/campaign/thenewbusy?ocid=PID28326::T:WLMTAGL:ON:WL:en-US:WM\_HMP:042010\_2\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

