---
title: "Re: Achieving 100% consitency"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-08-30T12:58:02-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04528"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04526"
author_name: "Jeremiah Peschka"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-08-30T12:58:02-07:00
---


When I don't need much horsepower, I use 3 local VMs. When I need horsepower, I 
fire up a few EC2 instances. Either way, once the instances are online, I put 
the cluster into a variety of states, run some tests, and then shut down my 
cluster. 

Admittedly, a lot of my time working with Riak is spent writing CorrugatedIron, 
so I don't spend as much time dealing with the inconsistencies, node gossip, 
etc. I just try to figure out how developers using .NET are going to want to 
interact with Riak and then figure out how to turn that into a PBI call. Well, 
that and make sure that CorrugatedIron is throwing errors to the .NET APIs that 
don't hide the real problem that Riak is seeing.
---
Jeremiah Peschka - Founder, Brent Ozar PLF, LLC
Microsoft SQL Server MVP

On Aug 30, 2011, at 12:50 PM, Les Mikesell wrote:

&gt; On Tue, Aug 30, 2011 at 2:33 PM, Jeremiah Peschka
&gt;  wrote:
&gt;&gt; That's the advice I usually give and the exact same reasons I give it.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; In an off-list email (as Jonathan knows), I equated it to saying "You should 
&gt;&gt; never do RDBMS development without a big enterprise grade server with $500k 
&gt;&gt; of SAN behind it." I typically say to build a dev environment that is as 
&gt;&gt; close to production as will give you production-like performance. Putting 3 
&gt;&gt; nodes on my crappy stock laptop HDD isn't going to give me anything remotely 
&gt;&gt; like a production environment (well… there is always EC2 performance).
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; We see these questions a lot on the list and I don't feel that telling 
&gt;&gt; clients "Well, it's gonna suck until you get it into production" isn't the 
&gt;&gt; best possible answer. A lot of people seem to be developing on 3-node 
&gt;&gt; clusters made out of Mac Minis, HP micro servers, and EC2; but even more 
&gt;&gt; people seem to be developing on laptops and wondering why they're seeing 
&gt;&gt; horrible performance.
&gt; 
&gt; How do you test the inconsistent states you will see in production
&gt; when you develop with a one-node cluster? Or, for that matter on a
&gt; 3-node cluster on the same box where partitioning isn't going to
&gt; happen without some unusual intervention to emulate it?
&gt; 
&gt; -- 
&gt; Les Mikesell
&gt; lesmikes...@gmail.com


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

