---
title: "Re: [ANN] riak-python-client 1.5.2"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-02-01T06:53:19-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg09960"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg09953"
author_name: "Sean Cribbs"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-02-01T06:53:19-08:00
---


Hi Matt,

The changes I mentioned were mostly part of
https://github.com/basho/riak-python-client/pull/179. The description
will tell you most of what is in there, but here's the shorter
version:

\* The client connects to multiple nodes automatically. Each node
carries a decaying error rate for selecting which node to connect to
next.
\* You can choose/change which protocol (HTTP or PBC) to \*prefer\* at
any time, it is no longer either-or. For some operations that are only
valid there, HTTP will be chosen for you.
\* The new connection pool is damn-near-close to thread-safe. It is
also re-entrant, so you can open multiple connections from the same
thread without releasing the first.
\* For most operations, they will be retried automatically up to three
times. The exception is streaming requests like list-keys and
MapReduce, which can be quite impactful.
\* Streaming list-keys and MapReduce have been added, and are exposed
as iterators, e.g.

for keylist in bucket.stream\_keys():
 print keylist

or

for phase, data in mr.stream():
 print phase, data

There are other important changes brewing, but that one PR got long in
the tooth, so we decided to wrap it up and merge it.

On Thu, Jan 31, 2013 at 5:38 PM, Matt Black  wrote:
&gt; Looks great Sean, I'll be sure to update soon.
&gt;
&gt; Is there any more I can check out on the future enhancements? Multi-node
&gt; connections and streaming sound very interesting.. If you can just point me
&gt; to parts of the library to read the code that should suffice.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On 1 February 2013 10:25, Sean Cribbs  wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hey riak-users,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I've just tagged and released version 1.5.2 of the Python client to
&gt;&gt; PyPi. This should likely be the last release of the 1.5.x series. It
&gt;&gt; includes some bugfixes and HTTPS support.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Release notes:
&gt;&gt; https://github.com/basho/riak-python-client/blob/1.5.2/RELEASE\_NOTES.md#152-patch-release---2013-01-31
&gt;&gt; Docs: http://basho.github.com/riak-python-client/
&gt;&gt; Issues: https://github.com/basho/riak-python-client/issues
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; We're very excited about the following release of the client, which is
&gt;&gt; currently brewing on the master branch and includes multi-node
&gt;&gt; connections, streaming, and a bunch of other enhancements. Your
&gt;&gt; comments, suggestions, issues, and contributions are welcomed!
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt;&gt; Software Engineer
&gt;&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt;&gt; http://basho.com/
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;



-- 
Sean Cribbs 
Software Engineer
Basho Technologies, Inc.
http://basho.com/

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

