---
title: "Re: Slow performance on getting via 2i"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-03-19T04:00:45-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07000"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06999"
author_name: "Russell Brown"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-03-19T04:00:45-07:00
---



On 19 Mar 2012, at 10:34, ivenhov wrote:

&gt; Hi Russell
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks for reply.
&gt; I tried to use your example but I could not find class BinIndexQuery in riak
&gt; client (I'm using 1.0.4, is there any newer version?)
No, you are correct, I replied from memory rather than checking the API first, 
sorry.

&gt; I gave it a try with:
&gt; 
&gt; IndexQuery indexQuery = new BinValueQuery(BinIndex.named(BUCKET\_NAME),
&gt; BUCKET\_NAME, bucketFilter.toString());
&gt; MapReduceResult res = \_iclient.mapReduce(indexQuery).execute(); 
&gt; Collection resS = res.getResult(String.class);
&gt; 
&gt; which is probably something completely different since I got:
&gt; com.basho.riak.client.query.NoPhasesException
&gt; at com.basho.riak.client.query.MapReduce.validate(MapReduce.java:90)
&gt; at com.basho.riak.client.query.MapReduce.execute(MapReduce.java:74)

Hmmm. I believe that validation should have been removed since Riak 1.1 
MapReduce can be executed without phases. I've raised an issue for that[1]. 
Until it is fixed you can't try the example I suggested.

Well you can. Just use the raw client and provide a JSON string to it

 String jsonString = "{\"inputs\":{\"bucket\":\"mybucket\", 
\"index\":\"myindex\_bin\", \"key\":\"mykey\"}, \"query\": []}";
 rawClient.mapReduce(new MapReduceSpec(jsonString));

If that is much faster then the reduce phases are to blame. Try adding back 
one, then the other. I have a suspicion that the JS reduce is the problem.

Cheers

Russell

[1] https://github.com/basho/riak-java-client/issues/113

&gt; 
&gt; I checked the github repository but could not find anything about
&gt; BinIndexQuery.
&gt; Daniel.
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; --
&gt; View this message in context: 
&gt; http://riak-users.197444.n3.nabble.com/Slow-performance-on-getting-via-2i-tp3812664p3838662.html
&gt; Sent from the Riak Users mailing list archive at Nabble.com.
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

