---
title: "Re: Next few months in Riak HEAD"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-06-13T15:08:25-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03674"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg03654"
author_name: "Alexander Sicular"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-06-13T15:08:25-07:00
---


If you still want to build from the source, use some git-fu:

git clone https://github.com/basho/riak.git
cd riak
#make sure you have all the latest branches and tags
git fetch --all
#list all tags
#git tag -l
#checkout the latest stable (riak-0.14.2, i believe)
git checkout riak-0.14.2

Now you've rolled back the clock to the latest stable (as of this
writing) and can compile to your hearts content.

Cheers,
Sasha

On Mon, Jun 13, 2011 at 09:36, David Smith  wrote:
&gt; All,
&gt;
&gt; The next few months will see a number of major new features and
&gt; changes dropping into the tip (aka HEAD) of the Riak codebase. The
&gt; team at Basho is very excited to get these new pieces of code out
&gt; there and we believe that this upcoming release will make Riak even
&gt; more reliable and easier to use.
&gt;
&gt; With this excitement in mind, I'd like to take a moment and remind the
&gt; community that we do NOT recommend using HEAD for production purposes.
&gt; While every commit is peer-reviewed and tested, there are times when
&gt; the code can be rough around the edges during feature integration.
&gt; Open Source is wonderful in that it lets us share new stuff earlier
&gt; and gather feedback on it. However, it also means you get to see (and
&gt; run) the code before it's had a chance to settle and be thoroughly
&gt; tested for release.
&gt;
&gt; As with all Riak releases in the past year, we will ensure that you
&gt; can do a rolling upgrade to the next release when it's available.
&gt; There just might be some bumpy air between here and there.
&gt;
&gt; Fasten your seatbelts and hang on, folks. It's gonna be fun. :)
&gt;
&gt; Sincerely,
&gt;
&gt; D.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Dave Smith
&gt; Director, Engineering
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; diz...@basho.com
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

