---
title: "Moving mapred* functions out of riak_client?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-06-10T04:34:04-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03639"
author_name: "Bryan Fink"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-06-10T04:34:04-07:00
---


Hello, Community.

I'd like to know how many of you are directly using the mapred\*
functions in the riak\_client module (riak\_client:mapred/2,3,4,
:mapred\_stream/2,3,4, :mapred\_bucket/2,3,4, etc.). Of those that are,
how many of you would mind if they moved out of riak\_client and into a
separate module?

Just to be clear: if you're accessing Riak's MapReduce system over
HTTP or ProtocolBuffers, this change would not affect you. My search
is only for people using the native distributed Erlang client
(https://github.com/basho/riak\_kv/blob/master/src/riak\_client.erl).

I'm doing some other work on Riak's MapReduce system, and as part of
the cleanup, I'd like to deprecate the riak\_client:mapred\* functions,
and replace them with functions in another module. Basically, any
code you had like this:

 {ok, C} = riak:local\_client(),
 {ok, Results} = C:mapred(Inputs, Query).

would need to be converted to this:

 {ok, Results} = riak\_kv\_mapred\_iface:mapred(Inputs, Query).

Additionally, remote connections that looked like this:

 {ok, C} = riak:client\_connect(RiakNode),
 {ok, Results} = C:mapred(Inputs, Query).

would need to be converted to something like this:

 {ok, Results} = rpc:call(RiakNode, riak\_kv\_mapred\_iface, mapred,
[Inputs, Query]).

Would this change be distasteful or unbearable for any of you?

Thanks,

Bryan Fink
Senior Software Engineer
Basho Technologies

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

