---
title: "Re: Have Riak servers in separate cluster behind a load balancer, or	on same machines as web server?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-10-04T17:13:30-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05041"
author_name: "Kev Burns"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-10-04T17:13:30-07:00
---


I'd also choose option A for infrastructure simplicity and more reliable
stats for capacity planning. 5 node n=3 is a very well understood starting
point.

- Kev
On Oct 4, 2011 2:06 PM, "O'Brien-Strain, Eamonn" &lt;
eamonn.obrien-str...@hp.com&gt; wrote:
&gt; I am contemplating two different architectures for deploying Riak nodes
and web servers.
&gt;
&gt; Option A: Riak nodes are in their own cluster of dedicated machines behind
a load balancer. Web servers talk to the Riak nodes via the load balancer.
(See diagram http://eamonn.org/i/riak-arch-A.png )
&gt;
&gt; Option B: Each web server machine also has a Riak node, and there are also
some Riak-only machines. Each web server only talks to its own localhost
Riak node. (See diagram http://eamonn.org/i/riak-arch-B.png )
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; All machines will deployed as elastic cloud instances. I will want to spin
up and spin down instances, particularly the web servers, as demand varies.
Both load balancers are non-sticky. Web servers are currently talking to
Riak via HTTP (though might change that to protocol buffers in the future).
Currently Riak is configured with the default options.
&gt;
&gt; Here is my thinking of the comparative advantages:
&gt;
&gt; Option A:
&gt;
&gt; - Better for security, because can lock down the Riak load balancer to
only open a single port and only for connections from the web servers.
&gt; - Less churn for Riak of nodes entering and leaving the Riak cluster (as
web servers spin up and down)
&gt; - More flexibility in scaling storage and web tiers independently of each
other
&gt;
&gt; Option B:
&gt;
&gt; - Faster localhost connection from web server to Riak
&gt;
&gt; I think availability is similar for the two options.
&gt;
&gt; The web server response time is the primary metric I want to optimize.
Most web server requests will cause several requests to Riak.
&gt;
&gt; What other factors should I take into account? What measurements could I
make to help me decide between the architectures? Are there other
architectures I should consider? Should I add memcached? Does anyone have
any experiences they could share in deploying such systems?
&gt;
&gt; Thanks.
&gt; \_\_
&gt; Eamonn
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

