---
title: "Re: Any performance comparison / best practice advice for choosing	a	riak backend ?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-08-30T05:02:24-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00975"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg00971"
author_name: "Germain Maurice"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-08-30T05:02:24-07:00
---



 Hi Neville,
I just would add that riak\_kv\_dets\_backend is limited to 2Gb by file 
i.e. by riak partition. It's just for your information.


Le 29/08/10 16:59, Sean Cribbs a écrit :
I'm not certain the purpose of the gb\_trees backend as opposed to ets, 
although I imagine it might have faster lookups (and slower inserts). 
 The fs\_backend uses one file per object, meaning that you will need 
lots of files open on a live system.


Sean Cribbs &gt;
Developer Advocate
Basho Technologies, Inc.
http://basho.com/

On Aug 29, 2010, at 3:33 AM, Neville Burnell wrote:


Thanks Sean,

Do riak\_kv\_gb\_trees\_backend and riak\_kv\_fs\_backend have particular 
strengths/weaknesses?


Kind Regards

Neville
When would one use

On 29 August 2010 01:02, Sean Cribbs &gt; wrote:


 Your choice should be dictated by your use-case. In most
 situations, "riak\_kv\_bitcask\_backend" (the default) will work for
 you. It stores data on disk in a fast (append-only)
 log-structured file format. If your data is transient or doesn't
 need to persist across restarts (and needs to be fast), try
 "riak\_kv\_ets\_backend" or "riak\_kv\_cache\_backend"; the latter uses
 a global LRU timeout. If you want to use several of the backends
 in the same cluster (for different buckets), use the
 "riak\_kv\_multi\_backend" and configure each backend separately.

 Sean Cribbs &gt;
 Developer Advocate
 Basho Technologies, Inc.
 http://basho.com/

 On Aug 28, 2010, at 5:10 AM, Neville Burnell wrote:


 Hi,

 I'm new to riak, and have been busily reading though the wiki,
 watching the videos, and catching up on the mail list, so I will
 have lots of questions over the next few weeks - so sorry 

 To begin, I'm curious about the characteristics of the seven
 backends for riak [1]

 1. riak\_kv\_bitcask\_backend - stores data to bitcask
 2. riak\_kv\_fs\_backend - stores data directly to files in a
 nested directory structure on disk
 3. riak\_kv\_ets\_backend - stores data in ETS tables (which
 makes it volatile storage, but great for debugging)
 4. riak\_kv\_dets\_backend - stores data on-disk in DETS tables
 5. riak\_kv\_gb\_trees\_backend - stores data using Erlang gb\_trees
 6. riak\_kv\_cache\_backend - turns a bucket into a
 memcached-type memory cache, and ejects the least recently
 used objects either when the cache becomes full or the
 object's lease expires
 7. riak\_kv\_multi\_backend - configure per-bucket backends

 Unfortunately this amount of choice means I need to do my
 homework to make an informed decision ;-) so I'd love any
 pointers or to hear any advice on performance comparisons, best
 practices, backends for development vs deployment etc

 Kind Regards

 Neville

 [1]
 http://wiki.basho.com/display/RIAK/How+Things+Work#HowThingsWork-Backends
 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
 riak-users mailing list
 riak-users@lists.basho.com 
 http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com






\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com



--
Germain Maurice
Administrateur Système/Réseau
Tel : +33.(0)1.42.43.54.33

http://www.linkfluence.net

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

