---
title: "Re: Throughput of read operations"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-08-12T07:50:13-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04362"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04358"
author_name: "Jeremiah Peschka"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-08-12T07:50:13-07:00
---


One question that pops into my mind is are these numbers averages over 3 or 5 
runs or is this a single run?

In my experience with EC2, I've run into I/O inconsistencies when I'm using 
anything less than 1TB drives and a large instance. There's a lot of potential 
for a noisy neighbor to steal I/O or CPU, or memory on the host OS which will 
put pressure on all other guests. 
---
Jeremiah Peschka - Founder, Brent Ozar PLF, LLC
Microsoft SQL Server MVP

On Aug 12, 2011, at 2:23 AM, Maria Neise wrote:

&gt; Hey,
&gt; I am doing some benchmarks with Riak and set up a cluster with 6
&gt; server using Amazon EC2. On each server I have GB of data. I am using
&gt; Bitcask as backend and the Java-API for my client. I have some
&gt; workloads with different proportion of operations, for example insert,
&gt; read and update. I started a workload with 95% read and 5% update and
&gt; achieved a throughput of 1207 operations/second. When I tried out
&gt; another workload with 100% read I only got 228 ops/sec. But I thought
&gt; Riak would be faster with reads than with updates. I would appreciate
&gt; if you could give me a hint, why Riak achieves a higher throughput
&gt; when doing updates and inserts mixed with reads.
&gt; Thank you in advance.
&gt; Cheers,
&gt; Maria
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

