---
title: "Re: riak search questions"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-10-11T13:13:09-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01251"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg01250"
author_name: "Rusty Klophaus"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-10-11T13:13:09-07:00
---


Hi Greg,

Great questions! Responses below:

On Mon, Oct 11, 2010 at 3:49 PM, Greg Steffensen
wrote:

&gt; Having just got back from the Lucene Revolution convention and seen several
&gt; hours of presentations that were essentially about how to configure large
&gt; distributed Lucene applications, Riak Search looks REALLY interesting. A
&gt; couple questions:
&gt;
&gt; I know that in Lucene and Solr, committing many newly-indexed documents at
&gt; once will provide much better performance than committing them
&gt; individually. Will there be a similar performance cost to indexing one
&gt; document at a time via the pre-commit hook, as opposed to indexing in bulk
&gt; via the search-cmd program?
&gt;

The backend that Search uses (merge\_index) was designed to provide
efficient, real-time indexing. It handles document-at-a-time indexing very
well. The main difference between indexing a batch of documents in Riak
Search (through the Riak Search's Solr interface, for instance) vs. indexing
the same documents one at a time is that the system can be smarter about
batching the messages, leading to performance gains from the reduced
chattiness.


&gt; Also, the decision to partition the index by terms rather than by documents
&gt; strikes me as the most interesting design decision in Riak Search. Could
&gt; this lead to unbalanced node utilization in queries? For example, I'd like
&gt; to implement a large search application that implements access control via
&gt; the index (adding some extra clauses to the queries generated by users), so
&gt; there would be a handful of terms that are used in almost all queries.
&gt; Would a query set like that lead to a few nodes being much more utilized
&gt; than others?
&gt;

Yes, fields with low cardinality can lead to lopsided partitions. During
Riak Search development, we sketched out a few different solutions to the
problem, but in testing we found that in many cases this is not as big of a
problem as expected (due in part to compression, batching, and replicas that
minimize or balance out the load), and so ultimately decided to wait for
real-world feedback before picking an approach.


&gt;
&gt; Awesome, awesome work, I can't wait to try this out.
&gt;

On behalf of the team, thank you!


&gt;
&gt; Greg
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

