---
title: "Re: riak_kv_cache_backend config questions"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-08-23T07:51:56-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04423"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04422"
author_name: "Kelly McLaughlin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-08-23T07:51:56-07:00
---


Tony,

Yes, you are correct.

Kelly

On Aug 23, 2011, at 8:38 AM, Tony Bussieres wrote:

&gt; Thanks Kelly!
&gt; 
&gt; So, if I understood well. 
&gt; 
&gt; with a config like this :
&gt; riak\_kv\_cache\_backend\_ttl 60
&gt; riak\_kv\_cache\_backend\_max\_ttl 300
&gt; 
&gt; If I put a key at time 0, and access it will disappear after 60 second.
&gt; If I put a key at time 0, and access it at time 50, it will disappear at time 
&gt; 110
&gt; If I put a key at time 0, and access it every 15 seconds, it will disappear 
&gt; after 300 seconds.
&gt; 
&gt; I'm I right?
&gt; 
&gt; Regards,
&gt; 
&gt; -tony
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Tue, Aug 23, 2011 at 10:22 AM, Kelly McLaughlin  wrote:
&gt; Tony,
&gt; 
&gt; riak\_kv\_cache\_backend\_ttl is the amount of time to extend an object's lease 
&gt; or lifespan when accessed whereas riak\_kv\_cache\_backend\_max\_ttl is the amount 
&gt; of time after which no further extensions should be granted. 
&gt; 
&gt; Kelly
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Aug 23, 2011, at 7:49 AM, Tony Bussieres wrote:
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Hi all,
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Could someone explain with an example what's the difference between :
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; riak\_kv\_cache\_backend\_max\_ttl 
&gt;&gt; and 
&gt;&gt; riak\_kv\_cache\_backend\_ttl
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Does the value of riak\_kv\_backend\_max\_ttl is also in seconds?
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Here's a snippet from the documentation found at 
&gt;&gt; http://wiki.basho.com/Configuration-Files.html
&gt;&gt; riak\_kv\_cache\_backend
&gt;&gt; A backend that behaves as an LRU-with-timed-expiry cache
&gt;&gt; riak\_kv\_cache\_backend\_memory
&gt;&gt; Maximum amount of memory to allocate, in megabytes (default: “100”)
&gt;&gt; riak\_kv\_cache\_backend\_ttl
&gt;&gt; Amount by which to extend an object’s expiry lease on each access, in 
&gt;&gt; seconds (default: “600”)
&gt;&gt; riak\_kv\_cache\_backend\_max\_ttl
&gt;&gt; Maximum allowed lease time (default: “3600”)
&gt;&gt; Thanks!
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; -tony
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; 

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

