---
title: "Re: Riak Search"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-08-24T02:59:40-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00944"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg00943"
author_name: "Nickolay Platonov"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-08-24T02:59:40-07:00
---


On Tue, Aug 24, 2010 at 12:19 PM, Felix Ritter wrote:

&gt; since RIAK is primarily a key value store, I have to manage all
&gt; indexes on my own.
&gt; So what I do, for example, is to create a million address datasets in
&gt; RIAK, and then I create an additional dataset holding a simple index
&gt; for the addresses (index by city name for example).
&gt; That works so far, but is not perfect from my perspective.
&gt; One concern I have is, that the index itself is not distributed if
&gt; it's stored in one single key, and so cannot be processed in parallel.
&gt; So that's why I'm looking for a good way to work with distributed
&gt; indexes. Does anyone of you know a document etc that describes a best
&gt; practice?
&gt; I'm just thinking that I'm not the first person having this requirement :-)
&gt;
&gt; Then, ideally, I would like to start a MapReduce job with the keys
&gt; holding the index, the following map phases would then work with the
&gt; keys/documents that came out of the first map phase.
&gt; Is it possible within a map function to lookup a dataset by its key
&gt; and pass this object to the next map phase then?
&gt; That would make things a bit easier, because then I can handle
&gt; everything within RIAK.
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; Felix
&gt;
&gt;
Yes, I have the same concerns and the absence of Riak Search makes me use
CouchDB instead
(even that couch is not a truly distributed system).

Prior writing my app, I can design my schema to be able to run the queries I
need.

But \*after\* my app is ready and have a lot of data entered, schema changes
won't be feasible (at least easily).

So.. waiting for Riak Search :)

Regards, Nickolay
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

