---
title: "Re: Range Loop Timeout Error after (after disk space over limit)"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-07-19T06:38:05-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07994"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg07988"
author_name: "Arnaud Wetzel"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-07-19T06:38:05-07:00
---


Hi,
The repair function triggers some errors :
riak\_search\_vnode:repair(XXXX).

First, an unexpected message is received by mi\_server gen\_server :

13:27:20.165 [error] Unexpected info
{#Port&lt;0.17562700&gt;,{data,[2,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,1|&lt;&lt;128&gt;&gt;]}}

Then after some time we can see the same error as with search query :

(sa\_riak@172.16.0.121)32&gt; 13:28:20.166 [error] gen\_server &lt;0.9186.0&gt;
terminated with reason: bad return value: lookup\_timeout
13:28:20.166 [error] repair transfer of riak\_search\_vnode from '
sa\_riak@172.16.0.121' 1438665674247607560106752257205091097473808596992 to '
sa\_riak@172.16.0.110' 0 failed because of
error:{badmatch,{error,{worker\_crash,{bad\_return\_value,lookup\_timeout},{fold,#Fun,#Fun}}}}
[{riak\_core\_handoff\_sender,start\_fold,5}]
13:28:20.167 [error] CRASH REPORT Process &lt;0.9186.0&gt; with 0 neighbours
exited with reason: bad return value: lookup\_timeout in
gen\_server:terminate/6
13:28:20.169 [error] Supervisor poolboy\_sup had child
riak\_core\_vnode\_worker started with
{riak\_core\_vnode\_worker,start\_link,undefined} at &lt;0.9186.0&gt; exit with
reason bad return value: lookup\_timeout in context child\_terminated

Do you think this error comes from corrupted data ? Does anyone have seen
this sort of error before ?

Thank you again
Regards.

Arnaud Wetzel

2012/7/18 Arnaud Wetzel 

&gt; Actually I had never seen this error before, and dont see it anymore now
&gt; (maybe it was because of the migration to 1.2.0-rc1). The problem is
&gt; difficult to describe because there are different errors every time I make
&gt; tests : here is a list of them (error appears during uncorrelated riak
&gt; search queries) :
&gt; {{nocatch,stream\_timeout},[{riak\_search\_op\_utils,gather\_stream\_results,4}]}
&gt; (correlated with other errors)
&gt;
&gt; {{badmatch,{error,emfile}},[{mi\_segment,iterate\_by\_keyinfo,7},{mi\_server,'-lookup/8-lc$^1/1-1-',4},{mi\_server,'-lookup/8-lc$^1/1-1-',4},{mi\_server,lookup,8}]}
&gt;
&gt; After the migration to 1.2.0-rc1 I saw (never saw this error before,
&gt; that's why it's not in the first mail) :
&gt;
&gt; {{badfun,#Fun},[{mi\_server,iterate,6},{mi\_server,lookup,8}]}
&gt;
&gt; But the main error (the one that appears most often) is :
&gt;
&gt; {error,{throw,{timeout,range\_loop},[{riak\_search\_backend,collect\_info\_response,3},{riak\_search\_op\_term,info,3},{riak\_search\_op\_term,preplan,2},{riak\_search\_op,'-preplan/2-lc$^0/1-0-',2},{riak\_search\_op\_intersection,preplan,2},{riak\_search\_op,'-preplan/2-lc$^0/1-0-',2},{riak\_search\_op,'-preplan/2-lc$^0/1-0-',2},{riak\_search\_op\_intersection,preplan,2}]}}
&gt;
&gt; My riak cluster has 5 nodes, now they all use the 1.2.0-rc1 version of
&gt; Riak, with default configuration in app.config. The ulimit is 2048 for all
&gt; nodes.
&gt; To avoid error during indexing, I had in vm.arg :
&gt; -env ERL\_MAX\_ETS\_TABLES 50000
&gt;
&gt; On each node there is approximately :
&gt; - 53G of merge\_index data
&gt; - 26G of bitcast data
&gt; There are around two hundred different riak search indexes.
&gt;
&gt; The errors began after indexing many documents into riak search (there
&gt; were 3 nodes), a node reached is disk capacity so I had to add 2 nodes,
&gt; then restart the indexation that succeed, but the errors describe above
&gt; starts on some random search queries.
&gt;
&gt; Thank you very much for your answer, I will try the repair command on
&gt; every partitions tonight.
&gt;
&gt; Regards.
&gt;
&gt; 2012/7/18 Ryan Zezeski 
&gt;
&gt;&gt; The `badfun` is a new error. That wasn't in your original email. I'm
&gt;&gt; not sure why you are seeing that. Are all your Riak nodes using 1.2.0-rc1?
&gt;&gt; Can you give me more information on your cluster setup? Are there any
&gt;&gt; other errors in you logs? The more information the more I can help.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; The repair "command" is not actually available from the command line yet.
&gt;&gt; You need to attach to the Riak console to access it. The APIs are
&gt;&gt; `riak\_kv\_vnode:repair(PartitionNumber)` and
&gt;&gt; `riak\_search\_vnode:repair(PartitionNumber)`.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Wed, Jul 18, 2012 at 1:02 PM, Arnaud Wetzel 
&gt;&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Ryan,
&gt;&gt;&gt; Increasing "ulimit -n" (current value is 4096, I have tested from 1024
&gt;&gt;&gt; to 200000) does not change anything, always the same errors :
&gt;&gt;&gt; {timeout,range\_loop}
&gt;&gt;&gt; lookup/range failure:
&gt;&gt;&gt; {{badfun,#Fun},[{mi\_server,iterate,6},{mi\_server,lookup,8}]}
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; I cannot find the command "repair" that you talk about in your email (on
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak1.2.0-rc1), is it a function directly in an erlang module and not
&gt;&gt;&gt; accessible yet with riak-admin ?
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Thank you very much.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt;&gt; Arnaud Wetzel
&gt;&gt;&gt; KBRW Ad-Venture
&gt;&gt;&gt; 13 rue st Anastase, 75003 Paris
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; 2012/7/16 Ryan Zezeski 
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Arnaud,
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; The 'stream\_timeout' and 'emfile' should be correlated. Whenever you
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; see the 'emfile' you should see a corresponding timeout. The index server
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; errors causing the result collector to timeout later. First, adjust your
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; file descriptor limit and then go from there.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; For the 1.2 release a "repair" command has been added to rebuild KV or
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; index data for a given partition. In releases before that you must reindex
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; all your data. You don't have to worry about removing the current indexes
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; as merge index will garbage collect that for you as it merges. As I said,
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; first I would fix the 'emfile' issue and then see if further action is
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; needed.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; -Z
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; P.S. If you want to be absolutely sure what your FD limit is in Riak
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; you can `riak attach` and then `os:cmd("ulimit -n").` Make sure to use
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Ctrl-D to exit from the Riak shell.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; On Mon, Jul 16, 2012 at 5:21 AM, Arnaud Wetzel &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Hi,
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Friday evening one of our riak node has reach his disk space limit
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; during indexing in riak-search. Then after adding some nodes, some 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; requests
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; fail, and it is impossible to find the correlation between requests with
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; error or those who succeed.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; The errors are :
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; {{nocatch,stream\_timeout},[{riak\_search\_op\_utils,gather\_stream\_results,4}]}
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; {timeout,range\_loop}
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; and sometimes (not always) :
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; {{badmatch,{error,emfile}},[{mi\_segment,iterate\_by\_keyinfo,7},{mi\_server,'-lookup/8-lc$^1/1-1-',4},{mi\_server,'-lookup/8-lc$^1/1-1-',4},{mi\_server,lookup,8}]}
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; So anyone else has experienced these errors ? Is it possible that they
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; come from the disk over limit error ? How can I try to repair merge index
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; data ? If it is not possible, what is the good process to delete entirely
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; all the indexes (only indexes, keeping riak datas).
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Thank you very much.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Regards.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Arnaud Wetzel
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; KBRW Ad-Venture
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 13 rue st Anastase, 75003 Paris
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

