---
title: "Fwd: Re: Java client: byte arrays as keys?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-07-16T08:35:05-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07961"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg07958"
author_name: "Kaspar Thommen"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-07-16T08:35:05-07:00
---


Brian/Russel,

That makes sense, I see now why only strings are supported.

However, your example of converting byte[] to String does not work
universally, one should always specify the charset when doing String/byte[]
conversions because otherwise a platform-dependent default will be chosen,
hence it's not portable. I found that ISO-8859-1 can handle arbitrary byte
arrays, so I'll use that to convert.

Thanks,
Kaspar

On Jul 16, 2012 3:51 PM, "Brian Roach"  wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Kaspar -
&gt;
&gt; Russell and I got together and discussed this a little more this morning.
&gt;
&gt; The reason it's not exposed at the IRiakClient and RawClient interfaces
is because the underlying original HTTP client API doesn't support a byte
array as a key; it only uses String. Because of this, our IRiakObject
default implementation only takes a String for a key, and our annotation
processing only works with a String as well. It was all designed around
being protocol neutral to sit on top of both of the old clients.
&gt;
&gt; That being said, what does work perfectly fine is creating a new String
from the byte array. Java does the right thing and this works regardless of
whether you are using the PB or HTTP client:
&gt;
&gt; IRiakClient client = RiakFactory.pbcClient(); // or .httpClient()
&gt; Bucket b = client.fetchBucket("this").execute();
&gt;
&gt; byte[] foo = { 0, 5, 120, 1 };
&gt; String key = new String(foo);
&gt;
&gt; b.store(key, "this is my value").execute();
&gt; IRiakObject o = b.fetch(key).execute();
&gt; System.out.println(o.getValueAsString());
&gt;
&gt; client.shutdown();
&gt;
&gt; Thanks!
&gt; Brian Roach
&gt;
&gt; On Jul 16, 2012, at 1:01 AM, Russell Brown wrote:
&gt;
&gt; &gt; Hi Kaspar,
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Sorry for the slow reply.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; On 16 Jul 2012, at 07:49, Kaspar Thommen wrote:
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; Anyone please?
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; On Jun 26, 2012 8:57 PM, "Kaspar Thommen" 
wrote:
&gt; &gt;&gt; Hi,
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; The high-level API in the Java client library (IRiakClient) does not
allow one to use byte[] arrays as keys, only Strings, whereas the
underlying PBC and http APIs (e.g. com.basho.riak.pbc.RiakClient) do, via
the fetch(ByteString, ...) methods. Any reason for this?
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Oversight or oversimplifying by me.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; Is it planned to add byte array keys to IRiakClient as well at some
point?
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; We should. Please will you raise an issue for it on the RJC github
repo[1] to ensure we get to it?
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Cheers
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Russell
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; [1] Java client issues -
https://github.com/basho/riak-java-client/issues?direction=desc&sort=created&state=open
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; Thanks,
&gt; &gt;&gt; Kaspar
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

