---
title: "Re: Windows"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-02-19T23:35:59-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06650"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06649"
author_name: "Aleksandr Vinokurov"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-02-19T23:35:59-08:00
---


My company have customers with hardware and software they already invest
money in. Like Windows, HP-UX, Solaris and RHELinux.
We are prototyping a new system with the scalability as major clue. We've
decided to use Erlang and want to try RIAK. But we have to support HW our
customers have.

I'm very-very newb to RIAK for now. I've stuck to the 45-min intro page on
the Basho site: being unable to just create a three-node cluster :) So I
don't know the structure and components of the RIAK. Are LevelDB and
Bitcask stay as options and it can be configured to use smth. different
pluggable to the library interface (internal RIAK API for K/V storage
library or smth. like that). It's also why I'm confused with "File access,
io scheduling and the like..." -- were there any interfaces used in
developing to whom the-new-windows library can conform to?

With all the respect,
Aleksandr

On 20 February 2012 11:15, Alexander Sicular  wrote:

&gt; I'm sure it would take a while but I'm just gonna drop two reasons that
&gt; immediately come to mind. Bitcask and leveldb. File access, io scheduling
&gt; and the like are different between \*nix and windows. I imagine it would
&gt; take quite a while to qualify just those two components for production use
&gt; in a windows environment.
&gt;
&gt; On the flip side, I've been on this list a while and I think this is the
&gt; first time I've seen interest in running riak on windows. I'm generally
&gt; curious what the use case for that would be vs an \*nix based deployment.
&gt;
&gt; Salutations and whatnot,
&gt; -Alexander Sicular
&gt;
&gt; @siculars
&gt;
&gt; On Feb 20, 2012, at 1:36 AM, Aleksandr Vinokurov wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Hello, Jared
&gt;
&gt; If it wouldn't take long, can you pinpoint the major obstacles why this
&gt; lack?
&gt;
&gt; With best regards,
&gt; Aleksandr
&gt;
&gt; On 19 February 2012 19:33, Jared Morrow  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Aleksandr,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; We currently do not support building or running Riak on Windows. We do
&gt;&gt; support or have successfully been run on most Linux distributions, Mac OS
&gt;&gt; X, \*BSD, Solaris, and SmartOS.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt; Jared
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Feb 19, 2012, at 4:46 AM, Aleksandr Vinokurov wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hello all!
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I'm stuck with the quest: why RIAK is not building ``make all'' on
&gt;&gt; windows (with cygwin).
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; samsung@Kryzhovnik /cygdrive/c/erlang/riak-1.0.3
&gt;&gt; $ make all
&gt;&gt; fatal: Not a git repository (or any of the parent directories): .git
&gt;&gt; ./rebar get-deps
&gt;&gt; fatal: Not a git repository (or any of the parent directories): .git
&gt;&gt; fatal: Not a git repository (or any of the parent directories): .git
&gt;&gt; fatal: Not a git repository (or any of the parent directories): .git
&gt;&gt; ==&gt; cluster\_info (get-deps)
&gt;&gt; ==&gt; lager (get-deps)
&gt;&gt; ==&gt; poolboy (get-deps)
&gt;&gt; ==&gt; protobuffs (get-deps)
&gt;&gt; ==&gt; basho\_stats (get-deps)
&gt;&gt; ==&gt; riak\_sysmon (get-deps)
&gt;&gt; ==&gt; mochiweb (get-deps)
&gt;&gt; ==&gt; webmachine (get-deps)
&gt;&gt; ==&gt; riak\_core (get-deps)
&gt;&gt; ==&gt; riakc (get-deps)
&gt;&gt; ==&gt; luke (get-deps)
&gt;&gt; ==&gt; erlang\_js (get-deps)
&gt;&gt; ==&gt; meck (get-deps)
&gt;&gt; ==&gt; bitcask (get-deps)
&gt;&gt; ==&gt; merge\_index (get-deps)
&gt;&gt; ==&gt; ebloom (get-deps)
&gt;&gt; ==&gt; eper (get-deps)
&gt;&gt; ==&gt; eleveldb (get-deps)
&gt;&gt; ==&gt; sext (get-deps)
&gt;&gt; Pulling edown from {git,"git://github.com/esl/edown.git","HEAD"}
&gt;&gt; ERROR: 'get-deps' failed while processing c:/erlang/riak-1.0.3/deps/sext:
&gt;&gt; {'EXIT',{{case\_clause,{error,127}},
&gt;&gt; [{rebar\_utils,sh,2,[]},
&gt;&gt; {rebar\_deps,vcs\_client\_vsn,3,[]},
&gt;&gt; {rebar\_deps,source\_engine\_avail,2,[]},
&gt;&gt; {rebar\_deps,require\_source\_engine,1,[]},
&gt;&gt; {rebar\_deps,use\_source,2,[]},
&gt;&gt; {rebar\_deps,'-get-deps/2-lc$^0/1-0-',1,[]},
&gt;&gt; {rebar\_deps,'get-deps',2,[]},
&gt;&gt; {rebar\_core,run\_modules,4,[]}]}}
&gt;&gt; Makefile:14: recipe for target `deps' failed
&gt;&gt; make: \*\*\* [deps] Error 1
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Seems I should read about Rebar...
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I'm following a
&gt;&gt; http://wiki.basho.com/Building-a-Development-Environment.html page, I'm
&gt;&gt; new to Erlang and I'm lack of understanding why RIAK is not running under
&gt;&gt; Windows? Erlang is running, but RIAK is not -- why?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; Александр Винокуров
&gt;&gt; +7 (921) 982-21-43
&gt;&gt; @aleksandrvin
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Александр Винокуров
&gt; +7 (921) 982-21-43
&gt; @aleksandrvin
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;


-- 
Александр Винокуров
+7 (921) 982-21-43
@aleksandrvin
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

