---
title: "Re: Riak Search \"And\" Queries inconsistency with Lucene"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-05-14T12:00:03-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03339"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg03337"
author_name: "Tejus Parikh"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-05-14T12:00:03-07:00
---


That explains why the queries behaved like 'OR's. Thanks!

-- 
Tejus Parikh
tejusparikh.com | @vi\_jedi

On Saturday, May 14, 2011 at 2:40 PM, Dan Reverri wrote: 
&gt; Hi Tejus,
&gt; 
&gt; The boolean operators must be capitalized (AND, OR, NOT). If you retry your 
&gt; searches with "AND" they will return the expected results.
&gt; 
&gt; Also, thank you for the very well put together examples.
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; Dan
&gt; 
&gt; Daniel Reverri
&gt; Developer Advocate
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; d...@basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Sat, May 14, 2011 at 9:28 AM, Tejus Parikh  wrote:
&gt; &gt; I am considering using Riaksearch to replace a project that currently makes 
&gt; &gt; use of lucene. This project extensively uses 'AND' queries to return a very 
&gt; &gt; small subset of the total document store. Given that riaksearch provides a 
&gt; &gt; "solr" endpoint, I would have expected the queries to return the same 
&gt; &gt; results, but that does not appear to be the case. 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; I created a simple test containing three documents (described here as xml):
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 1
&gt; &gt; strawberry
&gt; &gt; pastry
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 2
&gt; &gt; blueberry
&gt; &gt; waffle
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 3
&gt; &gt; strawberry
&gt; &gt; pancake
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; I ran a few queries against this set of docs:
&gt; &gt; search-cmd search menu\_index "topping\_text:\"strawberry\""
&gt; &gt; \*\* This returns 2 documents
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; search-cmd search menu\_index "topping\_text:\"strawberry\" and 
&gt; &gt; base\_text:\"pastry\""
&gt; &gt; \*\* This returns 2 documents, I think it should only return menu\_index/1
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; search-cmd search menu\_index "topping\_text:\"strawberry\" and 
&gt; &gt; base\_text:\"waffles\""
&gt; &gt; \*\* This returns 3 documents, it shouldn't return any
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; For comparions sake, I ran the same queries against lucene and retrieved 
&gt; &gt; the results I expected.
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; I've uploaded my documents, the commands I used to create an index, and the 
&gt; &gt; sample lucene java code to: 
&gt; &gt; https://github.com/vijedi/Riak-Search--And--Query-Test 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; Have I misinterpreted what is happening or is there a real difference here?
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; Thanks!
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; Tejus Parikh
&gt; &gt; tejusparikh.com | @vi\_jedi
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

