---
title: "RE: riak failed to start up"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-08-07T21:00:52-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08209"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg08208"
author_name: "Richard Heycock"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-08-07T21:00:52-07:00
---


Excerpts from Sangeetha.PattabiRaman2's message of 2012-08-08 13:33:25 +1000:
&gt; [root@CTSINGMRGTO riak]# sudo -u riak sh -c 'echo $PATH'
&gt; /sbin:/bin:/usr/sbin:/usr/bin

That's what I would expect.

&gt; [root@CTSINGMRGTO riak]# sudo -u riak -i
&gt; -bash: id: command not found
&gt; -bash: tty: command not found
&gt; -bash: grep: command not found
&gt; -bash: sed: command not found

This is very odd! Given that your path looks fine & without getting on the
machine it looks as if it's completely and utterly screwed.

My initial thoughts are it's one of the following:

\* /bin or /usr/bin has had files deleted - but I assume the machine
 behaves properly when you are normally logged in so this would be
 unlikely.
\* Some of the shared libraries are missing or corrupt but the above
 caveat applies.

As any user other than riak what happens when you type:

 which sed

it should return /bin/sed (I'm checking this on a debian machine so it
may be different on yours).

You might want to run

 ls /bin
 ls /usr/bin

and see what that returns. It should be a whole load of stuff including
sed, tty, etc

If sed exists (I'll assume it's path is /bin/sed) try running ldd

 ldd /bin/sed

is should return:
 linux-vdso.so.1 =&gt; (0x00007fff6f1ff000)
 libselinux.so.1 =&gt; /lib/x86\_64-linux-gnu/libselinux.so.1 
(0x00007fcb57137000)
 libc.so.6 =&gt; /lib/x86\_64-linux-gnu/libc.so.6 (0x00007fcb56db0000)
 libdl.so.2 =&gt; /lib/x86\_64-linux-gnu/libdl.so.2 (0x00007fcb56bab000)
 /lib64/ld-linux-x86-64.so.2 (0x00007fcb57377000)

If any shared libs are missing you'll get (from the top of my head):

 libdl.so.2 =&gt; missing

it might not be "missing" but it won't be a path.


rgh

&gt; Still the same .unable to start
&gt; 
&gt; -----Original Message-----
&gt; From: riak-users-boun...@lists.basho.com 
&gt; [mailto:riak-users-boun...@lists.basho.com] On Behalf Of Richard Heycock
&gt; Sent: Wednesday, August 08, 2012 9:00 AM
&gt; To: riak-users
&gt; Subject: Re: riak failed to start up
&gt; 
&gt; Excerpts from Sangeetha.PattabiRaman2's message of 2012-08-07 21:15:16 +1000:
&gt; &gt; Hi ,
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Can any one help me on the start up error ..thx in advance
&gt; &gt; [root@CTSINGMRGTO riak]# cat console.log
&gt; &gt; 2012-08-07 09:13:54.260 [error] &lt;0.164.0&gt; CRASH REPORT Process
&gt; &gt; riak\_core\_capability with 0 neighbours exited with reason: no function
&gt; &gt; clause matching orddict:fetch('riak@127.0.0.1', []) line 72 in
&gt; &gt; gen\_server:terminate/6 line 747
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; [root@CTSINGMRGTO riak]# riak start
&gt; &gt; Attempting to restart script through sudo -u riak
&gt; &gt; /etc/profile: line 31: id: command not found
&gt; &gt; /usr/sbin/riak: line 6: uname: command not found
&gt; &gt; /usr/sbin/riak: line 6: [: too many arguments
&gt; &gt; /usr/sbin/riak: line 30: whoami: command not found sudo doesn't appear
&gt; &gt; to be installed and your EUID isn't riak
&gt; 
&gt; This looks like your PATH isn't being set. Is "sudo -u riak"
&gt; 
&gt; sudo -u riak sh -c 'echo $PATH'
&gt; 
&gt; should show something like:
&gt; 
&gt; /usr/local/bin:/usr/bin:/bin
&gt; 
&gt; try getting a shell as riak:
&gt; 
&gt; sudo -u riak -i
&gt; 
&gt; checking the path is ok and run it from there.
&gt; 
&gt; rgh
&gt; 
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; on running as service
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; [root@CTSINGMRGTO riak]# service riak start Starting Riak: Riak failed
&gt; &gt; to start within 15 seconds, see the output of 'riak console' for more
&gt; &gt; information.
&gt; &gt; If you want to wait longer, set the environment variable
&gt; &gt; WAIT\_FOR\_ERLANG to the number of seconds to wait.
&gt; &gt; [FAILED]
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Thanks & regards
&gt; &gt; sangeetha
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; This e-mail and any files transmitted with it are for the sole use of the 
&gt; &gt; intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential and privileged 
&gt; &gt; information. If you are not the intended recipient(s), please reply to the 
&gt; &gt; sender and destroy all copies of the original message. Any unauthorized 
&gt; &gt; review, use, disclosure, dissemination, forwarding, printing or copying of 
&gt; &gt; this email, and/or any action taken in reliance on the contents of this 
&gt; &gt; e-mail is strictly prohibited and may be unlawful.
&gt; --
&gt; [e]: r...@roughage.com.au
&gt; [im]: r...@jabber.org
&gt; 
&gt; You're worried criminals will continue to penetrate into cyberspace, and I'm 
&gt; worried complexity, poor design and mismanagement will be there to meet them 
&gt; - Marcus Ranum
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; This e-mail and any files transmitted with it are for the sole use of the 
&gt; intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential and privileged 
&gt; information. If you are not the intended recipient(s), please reply to the 
&gt; sender and destroy all copies of the original message. Any unauthorized 
&gt; review, use, disclosure, dissemination, forwarding, printing or copying of 
&gt; this email, and/or any action taken in reliance on the contents of this 
&gt; e-mail is strictly prohibited and may be unlawful.
-- 
[e]: r...@roughage.com.au
[im]: r...@jabber.org

You're worried criminals will continue to penetrate into cyberspace, and
I'm worried complexity, poor design and mismanagement will be there to meet
them - Marcus Ranum

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

