---
title: "Re: Issue with clustering Riak nodes on CentOS servers."
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-10-30T11:43:41-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg09086"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg09085"
author_name: "Callixte Cauchois"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-10-30T11:43:41-07:00
---


Hi there,
have you checked the value of the cookie in the vm.args? they need to be
the same on all nodes in order to the nodes to speak together.

On Tue, Oct 30, 2012 at 11:39 AM, SWEENEY, JAMES  wrote:

&gt; Hello, I am attempting to create a 4 node riak installation on 4 separate
&gt; CentOS servers. Installation of Riak went well. We have run simple tests
&gt; like riak ping, sudo curl \-v http://127.0.0.1:8098/riak/test, ect, and
&gt; everything seems fine with the riak servers, they all start up with no
&gt; errors. We used the default ports in the app.config files. Ie: epmd
&gt; listener: TCP:4369
&gt; handoff\_port listener: TCP:8099
&gt; web\_port: TCP:8098
&gt; pb\_port: TCP:8087
&gt;
&gt; We have updated all ip addresses in the config files as instructed on the
&gt; riak site. Also, we have verified by telnet that the ports are all open
&gt; and that I can telnet between the riak servers. Still after all of that,
&gt; when I try to do a cluster command I get the following response:
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; [root@essd-riak-test-server ~]# riak-admin cluster join riak@10.1.78.9
&gt; Attempting to restart script through sudo -H -u riak
&gt; Node riak@10.1.78.9 is not reachable!
&gt; [root@essd-riak-test-server ~]#
&gt;
&gt; I have been stuck on this issue for quite a while and tried everything I
&gt; found on the riak web site to resolve this. Any help you could offer would
&gt; greatly be appreciated. Thanks in advance.
&gt;
&gt; Sincerely,
&gt;
&gt; James Sweeney
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

