---
title: "Re: avg write io wait time regression in 1.2.1"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-11-02T13:20:21-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg09172"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg09161"
author_name: "Matthew Von-Maszewski"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-11-02T13:20:21-07:00
---


Dave,

One of the other developer is looking into whether the compaction counters can 
appear in riak-admin. I should know by Tuesday if this is possible for the 1.3 
release. 1.3's code freeze is Friday 11/9. A leveldb counters interface 
should be in 1.3. It allows external programs to monitor (if the riak-admin 
does not make the cut).

Matthew

On Nov 2, 2012, at 11:18 AM, Dave Brady wrote:

&gt; I would like to cast my vote for having compactions exposed by "riak-admin".
&gt; 
&gt; We can already observe hinted handoff transfers. It would be very beneficial 
&gt; to watch compactions in real-time, too.
&gt; 
&gt; Log scrapping carries too many potential headaches.
&gt; 
&gt; From: "Matthew Von-Maszewski" 
&gt; To: "Dietrich Featherston" 
&gt; Cc: riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; Sent: Friday, November 2, 2012 2:19:40 PM
&gt; Subject: Re: avg write io wait time regression in 1.2.1
&gt; 
&gt; Dietrich,
&gt; 
&gt; I can make two guesses into the increased disk writes. But I am also willing 
&gt; to review your actual LOG files to isolate root cause. If you could run the 
&gt; following and post the resulting file from one server, I will review it over 
&gt; the weekend or early next week:
&gt; 
&gt; sort /var/lib/riak/leveldb/\*/LOG &gt;LOG.all
&gt; 
&gt; The file will compress well. And no need to stop the server, just gather the 
&gt; LOG data live.
&gt; 
&gt; Guess 1: your data is in a transition phase. 1.1 used 2 Megabyte files 
&gt; exclusively. 1.2 is resizing the files to much larger sizes during a 
&gt; compaction. You could be seeing a larger number of files than usual 
&gt; participating in each compaction as the file sizes change. While this is 
&gt; possible, I have doubts … hence this is a guess.
&gt; 
&gt; Guess 2: I increased the various leveldb file sizes to reduce the number of 
&gt; open and closes, both for writes and random reads. This helped latencies in 
&gt; both the compactions and random reads. Any compaction in 1.2 is likely to 
&gt; reread and write larger total number of bytes. While this is possible, I 
&gt; again have doubts … the number of read operations should also go up if this 
&gt; guess is correct. Your read operations have not increased. This guess might 
&gt; still be valid if the read operations were satisfied by the Linux memory data 
&gt; cache. I do not how those would be counted or not counted.
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; Matthew
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Nov 1, 2012, at 10:01 PM, Dietrich Featherston wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; Will check on that.
&gt; 
&gt; Can you think of anything that would explain the 5x increase in disk writes 
&gt; we are seeing with the same workload?
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Thu, Nov 1, 2012 at 6:03 PM, Matthew Von-Maszewski  
&gt; wrote:
&gt; Look for any activity in the LOG. Level-0 "creations" are fast and not 
&gt; typically relevant. You would be most interested in LOG lines containing 
&gt; "Compacting" (start) and "Compacted" (end). The time in between will 
&gt; throttle. The idea is that these compaction events can pile up, one after 
&gt; another and multiple overlapping. It is these heavy times where the throttle 
&gt; saves the user experience.
&gt; 
&gt; Matthew
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Nov 1, 2012, at 8:54 PM, Dietrich Featherston wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks. The amortized stalls may very well describe what we are seeing. If I 
&gt; combine leveldb logs from all partitions on one of the upgraded nodes what 
&gt; should I look for in terms of compaction activity to verify this?
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Thu, Nov 1, 2012 at 5:48 PM, Matthew Von-Maszewski  
&gt; wrote:
&gt; Dietrich,
&gt; 
&gt; I can see your concern with the write IOS statistic. Let me comment on the 
&gt; easy question first: block\_size.
&gt; 
&gt; The block\_size parameter in 1.1 was not getting passed to leveldb from the 
&gt; erlang layer. You were using a 4096 byte block parameter no matter what you 
&gt; typed in the app.config. The block\_size is used by leveldb as a threshold. 
&gt; Once you accumulate enough data above that threshold, the current block is 
&gt; written to disk and a new one started. If you have 10k data values, your get 
&gt; one data item per block and its size is ~10k. If you have 1k data values, 
&gt; you get about four per block and the block is about 4k.
&gt; 
&gt; We recommend 4k blocks to help read performance. The entire block has to run 
&gt; through decompression and potentially CRC calculation when it comes off the 
&gt; disk. That CPU time really kills any disk performance gains by having larger 
&gt; blocks. Ok, that might change in 1.3 as we enable hardware CRC … but only if 
&gt; you have "verify\_checksums, true" in app.config.
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; Back to performance: I have not seen the change your graph details when 
&gt; testing with SAS drives under moderate load. I am only today starting 
&gt; qualification tests with SSD drives.
&gt; 
&gt; But my 1.2 and 1.3 tests focus on drive / Riak saturation. 1.1 has the nasty 
&gt; tendency to stall (intentionally) when we saturate the write side of leveldb, 
&gt; . The stall was measured in seconds or even minutes in 1.1. 1.2.1 has a 
&gt; write throttle that forecasts leveldb's stall state and incrementally slows 
&gt; the individual writes to prevent the stalls. Maybe that is what is being 
&gt; seen in the graph. The only way to know for sure is to get an dump of your 
&gt; leveldb LOG files, combined them, then compare compaction activity to your 
&gt; graph.
&gt; 
&gt; Write stalls are detailed here: 
&gt; http://basho.com/blog/technical/2012/10/30/leveldb-in-riak-1p2/
&gt; 
&gt; How can I better assist you at this point?
&gt; 
&gt; Matthew
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Nov 1, 2012, at 8:13 PM, Dietrich Featherston wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; We've just gone through the process of upgrading two riak clusters from 1.1 
&gt; to 1.2.1. Both are on the leveldb backend backed by RAID0'd SSDs. The process 
&gt; has gone smoothly and we see that latencies as measured at the gen\_fsm level 
&gt; are largely unaffected.
&gt; 
&gt; However, we are seeing some troubling disk statistics and I'm looking for an 
&gt; explanation before we upgrade the remainder of our nodes. The source of the 
&gt; worry seems to be a huge amplification in the number of writes serviced by 
&gt; the disk which may be the cause of rising io wait times.
&gt; 
&gt; My first thought was that this could be due to some leveldb tuning in 1.2.1 
&gt; which increases file sizes per the release notes 
&gt; (https://github.com/basho/riak/blob/master/RELEASE-NOTES.md). But nodes that 
&gt; were upgraded yesterday are still showing this symptom. I would have expected 
&gt; any block re-writing to have subsided by now.
&gt; 
&gt; Next hypothesis has to do with block size overriding in app.config. In 1.1, 
&gt; we had specified custom block sizes of 256k. We removed this prior to 
&gt; upgrading to 1.2.1 at the advice of #riak since block size configuration was 
&gt; ignored prior to 1.2 ('"block\_size" parameter within app.config for leveldb 
&gt; was ignored. This parameter is now properly passed to leveldb.' --&gt; 
&gt; https://github.com/basho/riak/commit/f12596c221a9d942cc23d8e4fd83c9ca46e02105).
&gt; I'm wondering if the block size parameter really was being passed to 
&gt; leveldb, and having removed it, blocks are now being rewritten to a new size, 
&gt; perhaps different from what they were being written as before 
&gt; (https://github.com/basho/riak\_kv/commit/ad192ee775b2f5a68430d230c0999a2caabd1155)
&gt; 
&gt; Here is the output of the following script showing the increased writes to 
&gt; disk (https://gist.github.com/37319a8ed2679bb8b21d)
&gt; 
&gt; --an upgraded 1.2.1 node--
&gt; read ios: 238406742
&gt; write ios: 4814320281
&gt; read/write ratio: .04952033
&gt; avg wait: .10712340
&gt; read wait: .49174364
&gt; write wait: .42695475
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; --a node still running 1.1--
&gt; read ios: 267770032
&gt; write ios: 944170656
&gt; read/write ratio: .28360342
&gt; avg wait: .34237204
&gt; read wait: .47222371
&gt; write wait: 1.83283749
&gt; 
&gt; And here's what munin is showing us in terms of avg io wait times.
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; Any thoughts on what might explain this?
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; D
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

