---
title: "Re: Storing relationship data"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-12-30T17:03:09-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01862"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg01861"
author_name: "Bryan Nagle"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-12-30T17:03:09-08:00
---


Hi Justin,

Our current setup, is we are using webmachine; Client connects to
webmachine, and webmachine connects to riak via the erlang pcb client. So,
if we use links, and we want the client to be aware of the relationships, we
would still have to translate the links into the http response from
webmachine back to the client; or am I missing something?

Thanks,

Bryan Nagle
Liquid Analytics
bryan.na...@liquidanalytics.com


On Thu, Dec 30, 2010 at 6:47 PM, Justin Sheehy  wrote:

&gt; Hi, Bryan.
&gt;
&gt; The link data is embedded in the riak\_object metadata, so you can
&gt; easily observe it from outside Riak even when not performing
&gt; link-walking queries.
&gt;
&gt; To see this in action, check out the "Link" headers when using the
&gt; HTTP interface.
&gt;
&gt; -Justin
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Thu, Dec 30, 2010 at 6:36 PM, Bryan Nagle
&gt;  wrote:
&gt; &gt; Hi,
&gt; &gt; For the project that I am currently working on, we are trying to decide
&gt; on
&gt; &gt; the best way to store relational data in riak. At first glance, the
&gt; obvious
&gt; &gt; choice looks to be links, however one of our requirements is that this
&gt; &gt; relationship information has to be sent to a client along with actual
&gt; data.
&gt; &gt; The client has to be able to map the relationships between the
&gt; &gt; data solely from the information it receives while being completely
&gt; outside
&gt; &gt; of Riak.
&gt; &gt; So, I was wondering if anyone had any suggestions? We are considering
&gt; &gt; either encapsulating our relationship data within the riak store itself
&gt; (in
&gt; &gt; the value tied to the key), or using riak links. However, if we use riak
&gt; &gt; links, then we have to convert those links into data that the client can
&gt; &gt; receive & understand when sending data, and then convert the data we get
&gt; &gt; back from the client into riak links; we are wondering if this extra
&gt; step
&gt; &gt; is worth implementing this kind of a translation.
&gt; &gt; Bryan Nagle
&gt; &gt; Liquid Analytics
&gt; &gt; bryan.na...@liquidanalytics.com
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

