---
title: "Re: Achieving 100% consitency"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-08-27T08:44:15-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04491"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04490"
author_name: "Ian Plosker"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-08-27T08:44:15-07:00
---


Jonathan,

Excuse me, that last message should have been addressed to you.

Ian Plosker
Developer Advocate
Basho Technologies


On Aug 27, 2011, at 11:39 AM, Ian Plosker wrote:

&gt; Lukas,
&gt; 
&gt; Yes, even for dev you'd be best advised to develop and test your application 
&gt; with the same or similar number of nodes and n, r, and w settings as you 
&gt; would in production. It's good practice to develop applications in a dev/test 
&gt; environment that mirrors the production environment as much as is 
&gt; reasonable/feasible. You can run a single node cluster, but note that this 
&gt; isn't a configuration you'll see in a production.
&gt; 
&gt; Ian Plosker
&gt; Developer Advocate
&gt; Basho Technologies
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Aug 27, 2011, at 5:33 AM, Jonathan Langevin wrote:
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Even for development-purposes only? Otherwise it seems data would be written 
&gt;&gt; n times to the same machine, which is needless in a dev environment with low 
&gt;&gt; storage specs...
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Jonathan Langevin
&gt;&gt; Systems Administrator
&gt;&gt; Loom Inc.
&gt;&gt; Wilmington, NC: (910) 241-0433 - jlange...@loomlearning.com - 
&gt;&gt; www.loomlearning.com - Skype: intel352
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On Fri, Aug 26, 2011 at 5:01 PM, Ian Plosker  wrote:
&gt;&gt; Lukas,
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Also, we don't advise that you run single node clusters. Riak is designed to 
&gt;&gt; be used in clusters of at least 3 nodes. You can run a multi-node cluster on 
&gt;&gt; a single development machine by downloading the Riak source, and running 
&gt;&gt; "make devrel". Take a look at the Riak Fast Track 
&gt;&gt; (http://wiki.basho.com/The-Riak-Fast-Track.html) for more details.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Ian Plosker
&gt;&gt; Developer Advocate
&gt;&gt; Basho Technologies
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On Aug 26, 2011, at 3:17 PM, Lukas Schulze wrote:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; I'm doing some simple tests with Riak and tried to build something like an 
&gt;&gt;&gt; index.
&gt;&gt;&gt; Therefore I created new buckets for some attributes like "name", "street" 
&gt;&gt;&gt; and "city".
&gt;&gt;&gt; One entry in the index-bucket "name" is for example "Mueller" and the value 
&gt;&gt;&gt; contains all user ids, formatted as an JSON string: "{id:[1,5,8,13,2,7]}"
&gt;&gt;&gt; The java objects are saved as JSON strings in a separate bucket "users", 
&gt;&gt;&gt; the keys in this bucket are the user-ids, the values are the JSON strings.
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; If I add 200 users via Java and the RiakPBC client every loop I fetch the 
&gt;&gt;&gt; index, add the new user id and store it again in Riak.
&gt;&gt;&gt; But java is too fast, so I receive an old version of the bucket.
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Because I've only one node I set the n-value to 1, r = 1, w = 1 and dw = 1.
&gt;&gt;&gt; But I have to wait nearly 2 seconds to be mostly sure to get the correct 
&gt;&gt;&gt; response. (the computer isn't an high-end machine ;-) )
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Is it possible to be sure that the data will be saved permanently and I can 
&gt;&gt;&gt; continue adding users?
&gt;&gt;&gt; Are there any caching methods I can configure?
&gt;&gt;&gt; Can I set the default n-value to 1 so that every newly created bucket will 
&gt;&gt;&gt; have this value?
&gt;&gt;&gt; Does Riak have any kind of indexes or is it possible to implement it a 
&gt;&gt;&gt; better way?
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; In my first version I saved all users in one bucket and iterated over all 
&gt;&gt;&gt; of them to find the correct one. But for every single request from the Java 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Service to Riak it took nearly 200ms. For a huge amount of entries (10,000) 
&gt;&gt;&gt; this isn't practible. Therefore I tried to implement my own indexes.
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; The main focus of my question is getting rid of the inconsistent reads.
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Thank you.
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Best Regards
&gt;&gt;&gt; Lukas
&gt;&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

