---
title: "Re: licenses (was Re: riakkit, a python riak object mapper,	has hit beta!("
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-03-04T22:21:45-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06871"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06838"
author_name: "Greg Stein"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-03-04T22:21:45-08:00
---


Hey Andrey,

I've spent well over a decade dealing with licensing issues. One thing
that I've learned is that licensing is a personal choice and decision,
and it is nearly impossible to alter somebody's philosophy. I find
people fall into the GPL camp ("free software"), or the Apache/BSD
camp ("permissive / open source"), so I always recommend GPLv3 or
ALv2. (I find people choosing weak reciprocal licenses like LGPL, EPL,
MPL, CDDL, etc should make up their mind and go to GPL or AL)

In any case... license choice and arguments for one over the other is
best left to personal email, rather than a public mailing list like
riak-users. Changing minds doesn't happen on a mailing list :-)

Cheers,
-g

On Fri, Mar 2, 2012 at 05:24, Andrey V. Martyanov  wrote:
&gt; Hi Justin,
&gt;
&gt; Sorry for the late response, I didn't  see your message! In fact, I know the
&gt; differences between the two. But, what is the profit of using it? Why don't
&gt; just use BSD, for example, like many open source projects do. The biggest
&gt; minus of LGPL is that many people think that it's the same as GPL and have
&gt; problems understanding it. Even your think that I don't know the difference!
&gt; :) Why? Because, it's a common practice. A lot of people really don't know
&gt; the difference. That's why I said before that (L)GPL is overcomplicated. If
&gt; you open the LGPL main page [1], first thing you will see is "Why you
&gt; shouldn't use the Lesser GPL for your next library". Is it normal? It
&gt; confuses people. There are a lot of profit in pulling back the changes
&gt; you've made - a lot of people see it, fix it, comment it, improve it and so
&gt; on. Why the license forces me to to that? It shouldn't.
&gt;
&gt; [1] http://www.gnu.org/licenses/lgpl.html
&gt;
&gt; Best regards,
&gt; Andrey Martyanov
&gt;
&gt; On Fri, Mar 2, 2012 at 8:29 AM, Justin Sheehy  wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi, Andrey.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Mar 1, 2012, at 10:18 PM, "Andrey V. Martyanov" 
&gt;&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; Sorry for GPL, it's a typo. I just don't like GPL-based licenses,
&gt;&gt; &gt; including LGPL. I think it's overcomplicated.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; You are of course free to dislike anything you wish, but it is worth
&gt;&gt; mentioning that GPL and LGPL are very different licenses; the LGPL is
&gt;&gt; missing infectious aspects of the GPL.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; There are many projects which could not use GPL code compatibly with their
&gt;&gt; preferred license but which can safely use LGPL code.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Justin
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

