---
title: "Re: riak_core app using riak_kv"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-03-07T04:28:10-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06913"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06894"
author_name: "Adam Schepis"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-03-07T04:28:10-08:00
---


Mihai,

thanks for the advice, I really like your suggestion. Do you have any data
regarding the performance trade off you are making by using the erlang
protobuf api instead of riak:local\_client?

On Tue, Mar 6, 2012 at 8:09 AM, Mihai Balea  wrote:

&gt; Adam,
&gt;
&gt; We are also using local\_client to run a riak\_core app together with
&gt; riak\_kv in the same cluster.
&gt; Unless you have compelling reasons to do go this route, it might be better
&gt; to split the two into separate clusters. You gain a lot of flexibility from
&gt; an operational point of view, with the ability to spec and manage the two
&gt; separately.
&gt; Not knowing details of your application, I cannot really comment any
&gt; further, but I thought I'd bring this to your attention.
&gt;
&gt; Mihai
&gt;
&gt; On Mar 6, 2012, at 6:59 AM, Adam Schepis wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Thank Ryan!
&gt;
&gt; There's a funny side-effect with posting on a user list or going to ask
&gt; somebody for help with something where as soon as you do it, you find the
&gt; answer you were looking for :) I found riak:local\_client() shortly after I
&gt; posted and it's working like a charm.
&gt;
&gt; thanks again!
&gt; Adam
&gt;
&gt; On Mon, Mar 5, 2012 at 2:59 PM, Ryan Zezeski  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

