---
title: "Re: Updates to various Riak-related projects"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-04-03T14:00:23-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07123"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg07122"
author_name: "Mark Phillips"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-04-03T14:00:23-07:00
---


Awesome stuff, Jon. Thanks for the updates and the code!

Mark

On Tue, Apr 3, 2012 at 2:24 PM, Jon Brisbin  wrote:

&gt; I hope everyone who attended Erlang Factory learned a lot and had fun. I'm
&gt; bummed I missed it. :/ Ah well!
&gt;
&gt; I spent some time recently fixing a couple bugs that were hanging out in
&gt; some projects of mine that are Riak-related. Mostly I wanted to freshen
&gt; them and update them to use the latest riak\_core. They include example apps
&gt; that are basically my own notebooks on how to invoke a riak\_core vnode
&gt; using various methods:
&gt;
&gt; SockJS (using Cowboy) -&gt; riak\_core:
&gt; https://github.com/jbrisbin/sockjs-riak\_core-vnode-dispatcher
&gt;
&gt; Misultin (plain HTTP, no websockets) -&gt; riak\_core:
&gt; https://github.com/jbrisbin/misultin-riak-core-vnode-dispatcher
&gt;
&gt; RabbitMQ/AMQP -&gt; riak\_core:
&gt; https://github.com/jbrisbin/rabbitmq-riak\_core-vnode-dispatcher
&gt;
&gt; I've done some preliminary load testing of the HTTP-related dispatchers
&gt; and they can really take a lot of punishment. I was running out of
&gt; resources on my box to throw at a two-process riak\_core ring that were
&gt; load-balancing up to 1,000 simultaneous requests across all available
&gt; vnodes in that cluster. I killed one of the processes during the test and
&gt; lost one round of requests (those that were actively connected to that node
&gt; when I killed it) but the other 10's of thousands went through without a
&gt; hiccup.
&gt;
&gt; These examples are very simplistic. One could extend them and implement
&gt; handoff and coverage functionality, which would be really cool to have in a
&gt; web app.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Thanks!
&gt;
&gt; Jon Brisbin
&gt; http://about.me/jonbrisbin
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

