---
title: "Re: GET vs map reduce"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-08-19T11:58:42-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04394"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04392"
author_name: "Will Moss"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-08-19T11:58:42-07:00
---


It seems like this is a problem that can be solved without too much headache
by the client library. If you're working in an asynchronous environment then
forking off n green threads for each get and collecting the results is no
problem (this is what we do with great results). In a traditionally threaded
environment that could potentially be a bad idea, but you could create a
pool of worker threads that process incoming requests from all your other
processes.

Will


On Fri, Aug 19, 2011 at 9:35 AM, Wilson MacGyver wrote:

&gt; this is certainly a tricky problem for us, because there are times we need
&gt; to perform 9 to 100 GETs on per page render basis. some bullt-in
&gt; support would certainly be useful
&gt;
&gt; On Fri, Aug 19, 2011 at 10:12 AM, Jacques  wrote:
&gt; &gt; This begs the question, is there much efficiency to gain by creating a
&gt; true
&gt; &gt; multi-get? It seems like a number of people are trying to get the most
&gt; &gt; efficient multi-get possible.
&gt; &gt; If I remember, it was closed as a wontfix a couple years ago. Did you
&gt; guys
&gt; &gt; at Basho find that it just didn't have that much impact on performance?
&gt; &gt; Thanks,
&gt; &gt; Jacques
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; On Fri, Aug 19, 2011 at 5:45 AM, David Smith  wrote:
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; As Matt and Jacques noted, M/R is really not intended to be used in
&gt; &gt;&gt; this manner (i.e. for multi-get), particularly if you're interested in
&gt; &gt;&gt; latency. Generally, you will wind up involving more nodes on a M/R
&gt; &gt;&gt; request and shipping the "get" results across those nodes as the
&gt; &gt;&gt; system tries to distribute M/R.
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; D.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Omnem crede diem tibi diluxisse supremum.
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

