---
title: "key name conventions"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-10-28T11:09:18-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05346"
author_name: "Justin Karneges"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-10-28T11:09:18-07:00
---


Hi,

I read that when setting a value I can choose a key name or let Riak come up 
with a name for me. The majority of examples in the docs seem to choose 
names. However, it seems like anytime you'd store "table"-ish data, you'd 
want to avoid choosing names for your keys ("rows") and let Riak do it, right?

For example, suppose I want to store some user data, and I let users change 
their usernames whenever they want. Here's a natural first pass at a schema:

/users/{user\_fixed\_id}:
 data: user data

/users\_by\_name/{username}:
 data: empty
 link: /users/{user\_fixed\_id}

Here I have the real user data keyed by some fixed id, and then pointers to 
those objects keyed by name. If the user ever changes his name I delete the 
old pointer and create a new one.

"users" is basically the table then, and I let Riak choose the ids. I have to 
put the index ("users\_by\_name") as a different bucket so that Riak ids don't 
conflict with potential usernames. Unless there is a way to control how Riak 
chooses its ids (like choosing key name prefixes), I think you pretty much have 
to split into a bucket right?

Alternatively, the client could generate the fixed value itself, allowing it to 
use key name prefixes in the same bucket (e.g. "user\_{user\_fixed\_id}" and 
"username\_{username}"}. Generated ids would most certainly have to be UUIDs, 
though it might be interesting to know if an auto-increment integer is 
possible, if the integer is stored in Riak.

I'm just trying to get an idea of how people go about this.

Thanks,
Justin

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

