---
title: "Re: [newbie] riak performance - basics"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-04-13T08:24:21-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03000"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg02998"
author_name: "Dan Reverri"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-04-13T08:24:21-07:00
---


Hi MH,

Are there any errors in the Riak logs? I am wondering if some of those
requests are failing, possibly due to an open file handle limit:
https://wiki.basho.com/Open-Files-Limit.html

Thanks,
Dan

Daniel Reverri
Developer Advocate
Basho Technologies, Inc.
d...@basho.com


On Wed, Apr 13, 2011 at 7:38 AM, Kelly McLaughlin  wrote:

&gt; MH,
&gt;
&gt; Riak may not seem as fast in a single node configuration compared to things
&gt; like mongodb or others, but keep in mind the strengths of Riak are its
&gt; performance at scale and the ease with which it does scale. Nobody runs a
&gt; single node configuration in an actual production environment so keep that
&gt; in mind as you draw conclusions from your tests. I would encourage you to do
&gt; some testing on a cluster of nodes. Riak is written in Erlang and the
&gt; benefits of Erlang really become apparent when there is a lot of concurrent
&gt; load. The advantages of Riak specifically become apparent when you have a
&gt; few nodes crash, but don't lose any data and your cluster keeps humming
&gt; along. I would also point out the ease of administration with Riak. Scaling
&gt; either up or down is very simple I think when compared to other systems that
&gt; use shards or other schemes. Hope this helps some. Good luck and have fun!
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; -Kelly
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Wed, Apr 13, 2011 at 6:58 AM, M H  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I am new to Riak - just compiled it and trying it out. I have some
&gt;&gt; questions about performance.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I am running a single riak node with default configuration (only
&gt;&gt; changed the IPs) on a core i7 machine (Ubuntu). I run a very simple
&gt;&gt; JMeter test (RESTful calls):
&gt;&gt; 1 .PUT a simple json object into riak (~30 bytes; key is static - so
&gt;&gt; DB has only one key)
&gt;&gt; 2. GET the object
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; While the test is running riak seems to be using all the CPU it can
&gt;&gt; get - 'top' reports ~99.5% CPU usage (beam.smp is using ~780% so all 8
&gt;&gt; cores).
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Here are some results from the JMeter test:
&gt;&gt; \* 5 threads:
&gt;&gt; 1.PUT avg: 458 ms Throughput 6.1/sec
&gt;&gt; 2.GET avg: 355 ms Throughput 6.1/sec
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \* 50 threads:
&gt;&gt; 1.PUT avg: 5325 ms Throughput 6.1/sec
&gt;&gt; 2.GET avg: 2838 ms Throughput 6.1/sec
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; The numbers are pretty disappointing. Is there something wrong with
&gt;&gt; the default configuration? Or I am misusing riak in some way? There is
&gt;&gt; only 1 key with simple value in the DB....
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Here's some numbers from admin stats:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; vnode gets : 2118
&gt;&gt; vnode\_puts : 1067
&gt;&gt; read\_repairs : 1
&gt;&gt; vnode\_gets\_total : 224061
&gt;&gt; vnode\_puts\_total : 89045
&gt;&gt; node\_gets : 680
&gt;&gt; node\_gets\_total : 74676
&gt;&gt; node\_get\_fsm\_time\_mean : 3047570
&gt;&gt; node\_get\_fsm\_time\_median : 2949500
&gt;&gt; node\_get\_fsm\_time\_95 : 4888000
&gt;&gt; node\_get\_fsm\_time\_99 : 5964050
&gt;&gt; node\_get\_fsm\_time\_100 : 6348870
&gt;&gt; node\_puts : 339
&gt;&gt; node\_puts\_total : 29543
&gt;&gt; node\_put\_fsm\_time\_mean : 2433651
&gt;&gt; node\_put\_fsm\_time\_median : 2472125
&gt;&gt; node\_put\_fsm\_time\_95 : 4054512
&gt;&gt; node\_put\_fsm\_time\_99 : 4504152
&gt;&gt; node\_put\_fsm\_time\_100 : 4908213
&gt;&gt; read\_repairs\_total : 180
&gt;&gt; cpu\_nprocs : 620
&gt;&gt; cpu\_avg1 : 2104
&gt;&gt; cpu\_avg5 : 2117
&gt;&gt; cpu\_avg15 : 2099
&gt;&gt; storage\_backend : riak\_kv\_bitcask\_backend
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Any hints?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; MH
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

