---
title: "Riak and SEC Filings"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-11-08T04:09:12-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05471"
author_name: "Hector Castro"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-11-08T04:09:12-08:00
---


Hello,

I'm currently in the process of evaluating solutions to index the contents of 
~1TB of SEC (Securities and Exchange Commission) documents. File sizes vary 
between a few KB to a couple hundred KB. I started evaluating Riak first 
because ease of setting up and expanding a cluster are primary requirements 
(ElasticSearch is also probably going to get evaluated, along with Solr). 

Below I have a few specific questions that I was hoping people could help with:

 \* In going through the search querying documentation, I haven't found a 
way to extract a section of a result containing matches. Something similar to 
Google's search results page where you see an excerpt of the webpage contents 
that match your query. Is something like this built-in so that it doesn't have 
to be done by the application?
 \* Given that the documents total ~1TB of storage (not including the 
generated indexes), does something like decreasing the n\_val make sense? 
Mostly the documents are bulk inserted on a daily or weekly basis – other than 
that all of the operations are read-only.

Other than these specific questions, if anyone can provide general insight on 
issues that would arise from a dataset like this within Riak, please feel free 
to mention them.

Thanks,

--
Hector


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

