---
title: "Re: Very (very) slow handoff, how to investigate?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-01-27T04:45:55-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06443"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06438"
author_name: "Gal Barnea"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-01-27T04:45:55-08:00
---


Hi Ian

Thanks for the informative answer, I am using 1.0.3 indeed.

A day later, the cluster is making progress, but than I saw this in the
console.log:
2012-01-27 08:51:32.643 [info]
&lt;0.30733.2881&gt;@riak\_core\_handoff\_sender:start\_fold:87 Handoff of partition
riak\_kv\_vnode 50239118783249787813
2516661246222288006726811648 from '
r...@ec2-107-21-156-59.compute-1.amazonaws.com' to '
r...@ec2-leaving.compute-1.amazonaws.com' completed: sent 5100479 objects
in 10596.49 seconds

so we've dropped 50% in rate and are now less than 500 records/second !

Frankly, I think this is problematic any way you look at it...If I need to
wait days every time I manually remove a server from the cluster, it isn't
really a valid solution from my perspective.

Any thoughts?

Regards
Gal


On Thu, Jan 26, 2012 at 11:35 PM, Ian Plosker  wrote:

&gt; Gal,
&gt;
&gt; The limiting factor on EC2 will likely be IOPs (i.e. Disk throughput). EC2
&gt; is a IOPs constrained environment, especially if you're using EBS. Further,
&gt; doing a leave can induce a large number of ownership changes to ensure that
&gt; preflists maintain the appropriate n\_vals. The number of partitions that
&gt; need to be shuffled can exceed 80% of all partitions. In short, it can take
&gt; a while for the rebalance to complete. Assuming you're using a &gt;=1.0
&gt; release, you're cluster should still correctly respond to all incoming
&gt; requests.
&gt;
&gt; Which version of Riak are you using? As of Riak 1.0.3,
&gt; `handoff\_concurrency`, the number of outgoing handoffs per node, is set to
&gt; 1. This will reduce the rate at which the rebalance occurs, but it reduces
&gt; the impact of the rebalance on your cluster.
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Ian Plosker 
&gt; Developer Advocate
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt;
&gt; On Thursday, January 26, 2012 at 3:43 PM, Gal Barnea wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Ok, so now I can see in the "leaving" node logs:
&gt; 2012-01-26 19:18:23.015 [info]
&gt; &lt;0.32148.2873&gt;@riak\_core\_handoff\_sender:start\_fold:39 Starting handoff of
&gt; partition riak\_kv\_vnode 685078892498860742907977265335757665463718379520
&gt; from 'r...@ec2-leaving.compute-1.amazonaws.com' to '
&gt; r...@ec2-othernode.compute-1.amazonaws.com'
&gt; 2012-01-26 19:24:17.798 [info] &lt;0.31620.2873&gt; alarm\_handler:
&gt; {set,{system\_memory\_high\_watermark,[]}}
&gt; 2012-01-26 20:23:28.991 [info]
&gt; &lt;0.32148.2873&gt;@riak\_core\_handoff\_sender:start\_fold:87 Handoff of partition
&gt; riak\_kv\_vnode 685078892498860742907977265335757665463718379520 from '
&gt; r...@leaving.compute-1.amazonaws.com' to '
&gt; r...@ec2-othernode.compute-1.amazonaws.com' completed: sent 5110665
&gt; objects in 3905.97 seconds
&gt;
&gt; so things \*are\* moving but at a rate of 1308 records per second.
&gt; This sounds very slow to me, accounting for the small record size, the
&gt; high bw rate inside ec2 and practically 0% load on the servers
&gt;
&gt; any thoughts?
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Thu, Jan 26, 2012 at 10:12 PM, Gal Barnea wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Hi all
&gt;
&gt; I have a 6 server cluster running on ec2 (m1.large) - this is an
&gt; evaluation environment, so practically no load besides the existing data
&gt; (~200 million records, ~1k each)
&gt;
&gt; after running "riak-admin leave" on one of the node, I noticed that for
&gt; more than 3 hours
&gt; 1 - member\_status showed that there is one "leaving" node and pending data
&gt; to handoff on the rest but the numbers never changed
&gt; 2 - riak-admin transfers - showed handoffs waiting, but nothing changed
&gt;
&gt; at this point, I restarted the "leaving" node, so now the status is
&gt; 1 - member\_status - still stuck with the same numbers
&gt; 2 - transfers - are slowly changing
&gt;
&gt; The leaving server's logs are showing that a single handoff started after
&gt; the restart,but nothing since (roughly an hour ago)
&gt;
&gt; Interestingly, the leaving server is pretty idle while the remaining
&gt; servers are working hard at 50%-60% cpu
&gt;
&gt; so, the question now is where should I dig around to try and understand
&gt; what's going on. Any thoughts?
&gt;
&gt; Thanks
&gt; Gal
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

