---
title: "Re: Looking for good tutorial on writing Erlang Map/Reduce queries?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-01-16T13:59:24-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg09822"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg09821"
author_name: "Derek Sanderson"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-01-16T13:59:24-08:00
---


Christian,

Thanks so much for pointing me to your examples. I'll definitely be looking
them over.

As for the "official" map/reduce stuff that comes with Riak, all I can say
is "why didn't I think of that?".

Thanks again

On Wed, Jan 16, 2013 at 4:18 PM, Christian Dahlqvist wrote:

&gt; Hi Derek,
&gt;
&gt; The best place to start is probably the mapreduce functions officially
&gt; included in Riak (
&gt; https://github.com/basho/riak\_kv/blob/master/src/riak\_kv\_mapreduce.erl)
&gt; if you have not already found these. These do however not make use of
&gt; arguments. If you are looking for an example of how arguments can be used,
&gt; you could look at a little library containing map phase functions that I
&gt; wrote some time back. In these I accept JSON documents as arguments and use
&gt; this to control processing. The library is available here:
&gt; https://github.com/whitenode/riak\_mapreduce\_utils
&gt;
&gt; Best regards,
&gt;
&gt; Christian
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On 16 Jan 2013, at 13:34, Derek Sanderson  wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Hello all,
&gt;
&gt; Been googling around, but failing to find anything that really helps walk
&gt; a newcomer through writing M/R queries in Erlang for Riak.
&gt;
&gt; I'm going through some general Erlang tutorials, but it would also be good
&gt; to just see some solid examples of basic (and not so basic) Map and Reduce
&gt; operations, to get a feel for how to actually write them. The Riak Handbook
&gt; has one example that I've been going with, which is good for a bare-minimum
&gt; set of requirements for how to write these, but doesn't really provide
&gt; enough info to know what kinds of things are available to me, and some
&gt; common patterns to apply in writing my own Maps, how to pass in parameters,
&gt; etc etc.
&gt;
&gt; Thanks in advance
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

