---
title: "Re: Solr Indexing and required fields."
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-05-16T09:19:49-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07466"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg07465"
author_name: "Alexander Sicular"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-05-16T09:19:49-07:00
---


I wouldn't mind. I use search ad-hock via the command line but mainly as an
input mechanism into an m/r.

On Wed, May 16, 2012 at 12:06 PM, Ryan Zezeski  wrote:

&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Tue, May 15, 2012 at 3:06 PM, Eric Boyer  wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I would have expected these 2 scenarios to result in the same error.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Anything that I'm missing or is it just my assumption about how
&gt;&gt; required fields are handled is flawed?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt; Eric,
&gt;
&gt; I can confirm that the required fields are not enforced, except for the
&gt; unique id field [1]. The `expected\_binaries` is actually just a general
&gt; parse error, not a recognition of a required field missing. I created an
&gt; issue.
&gt;
&gt; https://github.com/basho/riak\_search/issues/106
&gt;
&gt; This brings up another point. In order to make Search more focused on
&gt; indexing KV data I want to remove the solr indexing support. The Solr
&gt; support in Search is only a subset of that in proper Solr and it doesn't
&gt; have the same semantics for some of the features it does implement.
&gt; Furthermore, it puts these docs in a special bucket that isn't obvious and
&gt; kind of acts like a backdoor into KV. You could still accomplish what you
&gt; are doing here, the difference is that you would install a Search hook on
&gt; the bucket and then write the XML (or JSON) to that bucket and the Search
&gt; hook would automatically extract the fields and analyze based on the
&gt; schema. What you would lose is ability to do multiple docs in one go and
&gt; using a regular Solr client (I'm guessing Search's end point supports that
&gt; but I've never tested it).
&gt;
&gt; Does that make any sense? How would you feel if the solr indexing
&gt; functionality was removed?
&gt;
&gt; -Z
&gt;
&gt; [1]:
&gt; https://github.com/basho/riak\_search/blob/1.1.2/src/riak\_solr\_search\_client.erl#L69
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

