---
title: "Re: Faster deletes?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-11-25T13:45:14-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05736"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg05735"
author_name: "matthew hawthorne"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-11-25T13:45:14-08:00
---


I think that writes to Riak will always be faster than other
operations. It has to do with the fact that writes are append only,
whereas deletes, for example, must write a tombstone into all of the
replicas.

I'm basically paraphrasing this message since I don't understand how
this works 100%:
http://lists.basho.com/pipermail/riak-users\_lists.basho.com/2011-October/006048.html

However I do think concurrency is your best bet - we needed a bulk
delete job awhile back and the steps were:
1) generate a keylist, split into multiple files
2) spawn a process/thread for each file

the key is finding the proper number of processes/files to keep your
delete rate acceptable.

-matt


On Fri, Nov 25, 2011 at 1:06 PM, Keith Irwin  wrote:
&gt; I'm still interested in this problem (deletes lagging way behind inserts). Is 
&gt; there anything about the technology of Riak itself that might explain this, 
&gt; or is it instead something to do with the map/reduce phase in order to find 
&gt; keys to delete?
&gt;
&gt; Andy indicated that the map part of what he was doing was really fast, but 
&gt; iterating deletes were the problem.
&gt;
&gt; Perhaps spinning up a lot of concurrent deletes is the key?
&gt;
&gt; Keith
&gt;
&gt; On Nov 17, 2011, at 1:29 PM, Bartling, Aron wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; It's using a map job with key filters to list the keys to delete. This part 
&gt;&gt; of the process happens in a very reasonable amount of time.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; -----Original Message-----
&gt;&gt; From: riak-users-boun...@lists.basho.com 
&gt;&gt; [mailto:riak-users-boun...@lists.basho.com] On Behalf Of Andy Skelton
&gt;&gt; Sent: Thursday, November 17, 2011 11:24 AM
&gt;&gt; To: riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; Subject: Re: Faster deletes?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Aron Bartling wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt; The deletion is based on the timestamp incorporated into the key
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Does this mean your deletion process is listing all of the keys in a bucket?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

