---
title: "Re: RiakSearch solr multiply file Submit ?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-10-31T08:22:21-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01426"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg01424"
author_name: "Rusty Klophaus"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-10-31T08:22:21-07:00
---


Hi Prometheus,

Can you tell me the exact error that it gives?

Wildcard matching should work as follows (taken from the library
documentation):

The wildcard string looks like an ordinary filename, except that certain
"wildcard characters" are interpreted in a special way. The following
characters are special:

?
Matches one character.

\*
Matches any number of characters up to the end of the filename, the next
dot, or the next slash.

{Item,...}
Alternation. Matches one of the alternatives.
Other characters represent themselves. Only filenames that have exactly the
same character in the same position will match. (Matching is case-sensitive;
i.e. "a" will not match "A").

Best,
Rusty

On Sun, Oct 31, 2010 at 11:18 AM, Prometheus WillSurvive &lt;
prometheus.willsurv...@gmail.com&gt; wrote:

&gt; Hi Rusty ,
&gt;
&gt; Thanks
&gt;
&gt; I already tried. :) but it give error and trying to teach me sytnax as in
&gt; help :)
&gt;
&gt; It is accepting : bin/search-cmd solr testwiki /root/DATA/output/
&gt;
&gt; but gives error for :
&gt;
&gt; bin/search-cmd solr testwiki /root/DATA/output/\*.xml
&gt;
&gt; As you aware We are trying to do some benchmark test on riaksearch. We
&gt; have customers have billions of doc. Working with current lucene / Solr is a
&gt; operational nightmare ( yes it is).
&gt;
&gt; So we are looking for a replacement for those customers. This is why we are
&gt; one of the early tester of the RiakSearch.
&gt;
&gt; Best Regards
&gt;
&gt; Prometheus
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Oct 31, 2010, at 5:12 PM, Rusty Klophaus wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Hi Prometheus,
&gt;
&gt; Yes, you can either put the files into a directory and then provide a
&gt; command line pointing to the directory, ie:
&gt;
&gt; bin/search-cmd solr index path/to/directory
&gt;
&gt; Or you can specify a wildcard using '\*':
&gt;
&gt; bin/search-cmd solr index path/to/directory/\*.xml
&gt;
&gt; Best,
&gt; Rusty
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Sat, Oct 30, 2010 at 4:10 PM, Prometheus WillSurvive &lt;
&gt; prometheus.willsurv...@gmail.com&gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi ,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Is there anyway to submit more than one file in :
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; "search-cmd solr INDEX abc.xml ? "
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; it is not accepting \*.xml or 1.xml 2.xml in the same command line..
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; thanks
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Prometheus
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

