---
title: "Re: Random server restarts, swap and moving nodes to new hardware"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-08-16T07:35:10-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04378"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04377"
author_name: "Sean Cribbs"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-08-16T07:35:10-07:00
---


Jeff,

That should be fine. I assumed you were using EBS as your data volume
because most people we talk to do (for better or worse).

On Tue, Aug 16, 2011 at 10:32 AM, Jeff Pollard wrote:

&gt; Hey Sean,
&gt;
&gt; Thanks very much for the reply. I'll certainly try going to 10.10 with the
&gt; upgrade, that's good info.
&gt;
&gt; Re EBS: were you saying to attach the EBS volume to the new node and use
&gt; the EBS volume as the data volume? We had been using EBS as a backup
&gt; volume, but using ephemeral storage for the actual data directory. We did
&gt; this primarily for I/O performance reasons and also cause EBS seems to have
&gt; had a bad operations track record at AWS. In my steps from my previous
&gt; email, our "shared location" actually was EBS, but we were planning on
&gt; offloading the files to the ephemeral disk and using that as the data volume
&gt; for Riak. Does that make sense?
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Tue, Aug 16, 2011 at 7:18 AM, Sean Cribbs  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Jeff,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; We highly recommend you upgrade to 10.10 or later. 10.04 has some known
&gt;&gt; problems when running under Xen (especially on EC2) -- in some cases under
&gt;&gt; load, the network interface will break, making the node temporarily
&gt;&gt; inaccessible.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; When you do upgrade, the simplest way (if possible) would be to remount
&gt;&gt; the attached EBS volumes where your Riak data is stored onto the new nodes.
&gt;&gt; Otherwise, the steps you list are correct.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Regarding swap, whether you have it on or not is a personal decision. Riak
&gt;&gt; will "do the right thing" and exit when it can't allocate more memory,
&gt;&gt; allowing you to figure out what went wrong -- as opposed to grinding the
&gt;&gt; machine into IO oblivion while consuming more and more swap. That said, in
&gt;&gt; some deployments (notably not on EC2), swap can be helpful.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hope that helps,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt;&gt; Developer Advocate
&gt;&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt;&gt; http://www.basho.com/
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Tue, Aug 16, 2011 at 3:46 AM, Jeff Pollard wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Hello everyone,
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; We've got a very interesting problem. We're hosting our 5-node cluster
&gt;&gt;&gt; on EC2 running Ubuntu 10.04 LTS (Lucid Lynx) Server 
&gt;&gt;&gt; 64-bit using
&gt;&gt;&gt; m2.xlarge instance types, and over the past 5 days we've had two EC2 servers
&gt;&gt;&gt; randomly restart on us. We've checked the logs and there was nothing that
&gt;&gt;&gt; we saw that indicated why they restarted. One second they were happily
&gt;&gt;&gt; logging and the next second the server was in the process of rebooting.
&gt;&gt;&gt; This is particularly bad because every time the node comes back up we get
&gt;&gt;&gt; merge errors due to an existing bug in Riak and have to restore from a
&gt;&gt;&gt; recent backup.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Just today we noticed that the EC2 servers did not have swap enabled
&gt;&gt;&gt; (apparently the norm for xlarge+ instances), which we thought might have
&gt;&gt;&gt; been our problem? My knowledge of what happens when swap is off is pretty
&gt;&gt;&gt; poor - but I have been told that the Linux OOM killer should still be
&gt;&gt;&gt; invoked and start trying to kill processes, rather than the server simply
&gt;&gt;&gt; restarting. Is that correct? Also, how would Riak hypothetically handle
&gt;&gt;&gt; swap being off on a system? We're using Bitcask if that helps.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Secondly, one of our ops guys here thinks the issue might be related to a
&gt;&gt;&gt; bug  (?) that others
&gt;&gt;&gt; Ubuntu users of the same version seem to have. In fact, we do see the same
&gt;&gt;&gt; "INFO: task cron:15047 blocked for more than 120 seconds: line in our log
&gt;&gt;&gt; file. We're also running a AMI that isn't the official one from Canonical,
&gt;&gt;&gt; so the thought being an upgrade to the official AMI would help.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; If we do want to upgrade, it will mean moving each cluster node to new
&gt;&gt;&gt; hardware. I wanted to ask the list to make sure we were doing it correctly.
&gt;&gt;&gt; Here is the plan to transfer a node to new hardware -- note that these
&gt;&gt;&gt; steps will be done on one node at a time, and we'll make sure the cluster
&gt;&gt;&gt; has stabilized after doing one node before moving on to the next one.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; 1. Stop riak on old server.
&gt;&gt;&gt; 2. Copy data directory (including bitcask, mr\_queue and ring folders)
&gt;&gt;&gt; to a shared location.
&gt;&gt;&gt; 3. Shutdown old server.
&gt;&gt;&gt; 4. Boot new replacement server, installing (but not starting) Riak.
&gt;&gt;&gt; 5. Transfer data directory from shared location to data folder on new
&gt;&gt;&gt; node.
&gt;&gt;&gt; 6. Start riak.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; My main concern is if the ring state will transfer to a new node safely,
&gt;&gt;&gt; assuming the new server has the same hostname and node name as the old
&gt;&gt;&gt; server? The new server will have a different IP address, but all our node
&gt;&gt;&gt; names in our cluster use hostnames, and those will not be changing.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;


-- 
Sean Cribbs 
Developer Advocate
Basho Technologies, Inc.
http://www.basho.com/
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

