---
title: "Re: Bucket planning"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-04-19T21:05:11-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00082"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg00080"
author_name: "Alexander Sicular"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-04-19T21:05:11-07:00
---


I would go with A. An advantage of your data is that it is immutable. 
Since it never changes you can do extensive m/r pre computations and 
have them run continuously on some frequency. I would also probably 
spend some time thinking about the new pre/post hook features to 
potentially build some additional index in other buckets. Like in 
particular keys per time slice.


Do let us know how you proceed!

-Alexander


@siculars on twitter
http://siculars.posterous.com

Sent from my iPhone

On Apr 19, 2010, at 21:36, Brandon Smith  wrote:


I am looking to use Riak as a data store for events in our system.
Namely, I have a handful of event types now and anticipate much more
later.

Consider the following "event":

{
 "type" : "bws.stats",
 "host" : "10.1.55.101",
 "description" : "human friendly description",
 "details" : "string or Object",
 "timestamp" : 1234567890,
 "status" : "SUCCESS|FAIL"
}

A JavaScript client will retrieve events and display them on a webpage
and filter the data based on:

1) show just one event type
2) show all events for a given host
3) show all events for last Wednesday
4) show all events that had a status of SUCCESS
5) show the 10 events before a specific FAIL that matches the same 
host and type


There are other ways that we plan to query the data, but I think you
get the idea.

The event data payload is flexible if the above is not optimal for 
Riak.


Thoughts on how to best implement in Riak?

I've considered several approaches...

A) Store all events in one bucket and build out extensive,
parameterized map/reduce functionality in order to return specialized
data sets as described above
B) Store all events in separate buckets (based on type?)... but where
does that leave me when needing to pivot on other fields
C) Have as many buckets as I want to build data sets and duplicate
data across the buckets... i.e. a "type" bucket, "host" bucket, and
"status" bucket... except this starts to get a bit painful in order to
populate buckets that I didn't anticipate
D) Store all events in one bucket and have categorical buckets whose
entries are NOT duplicate, but rather link to the main "event" bucket

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

