---
title: "Re: Populate and Set_Siblings"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-11-07T08:27:42-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg09235"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg09232"
author_name: "Jeremiah Peschka"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-11-07T08:27:42-08:00
---


Yeah, neither should I.

---
Jeremiah Peschka
Founder, Brent Ozar Unlimited

On Nov 7, 2012, at 7:49 AM, Michael Clemmons  wrote:

&gt; I apologize for the confusion here(shouldn't hit listserves at 6am). I'm 
&gt; talking about the python client for riak and refering to the to methods 
&gt; populate and set\_sublings found 
&gt; https://github.com/basho/riak-python-client/blob/master/riak/riak\_object.py#L526
&gt; and 
&gt; https://github.com/basho/riak-python-client/blob/master/riak/riak\_object.py#L621
&gt; A note to non-python people when I say private I don't mean actually private, 
&gt; its simply a convention the community uses to denote that its either likely 
&gt; to change version to version or if handled improperly can easily cause the 
&gt; class to behave improperly.
&gt; 
&gt; On Wed, Nov 7, 2012 at 7:04 AM, Jeremiah Peschka  
&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt; CorrugatedIron[1][2] is a .NET driver for Riak. It supports the vast 
&gt;&gt; majority of Riak 1.2 features (search is a bit rough around the edges).
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; [1]: http://CorrugatedIron.org
&gt;&gt; [2]: http://github.com/DistributedNonsense/CorrugatedIron
&gt;&gt; ---
&gt;&gt; Jeremiah Peschka
&gt;&gt; Founder, Brent Ozar Unlimited
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On Nov 7, 2012, at 6:49 AM, "Kevin Burton"  wrote:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Since I will be importing data from an existing SQL Server this population 
&gt;&gt;&gt; needs to involve some sort of .NET driver. I would rather not take the time 
&gt;&gt;&gt; to learn python and how it interfaces with SQL Server if possible. Any 
&gt;&gt;&gt; suggestions?
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; From: riak-users [mailto:riak-users-boun...@lists.basho.com] On Behalf Of 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Michael Clemmons
&gt;&gt;&gt; Sent: Wednesday, November 07, 2012 8:25 AM
&gt;&gt;&gt; To: riak-users
&gt;&gt;&gt; Subject: Populate and Set\_Siblings
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Hey all,
&gt;&gt;&gt; I've noticed afew questions on the list serve over the past year. Allot of 
&gt;&gt;&gt; people have asked questions about how/why they should use populate. Mostly 
&gt;&gt;&gt; its because its exposed in the docs without much explanation. Along with 
&gt;&gt;&gt; set\_siblings and some other number of methods in riak\_objects.py, many 
&gt;&gt;&gt; methods which are likely to be only used internally to the class and not 
&gt;&gt;&gt; marked with a preceding \_ which is part of pep 8 here 
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/#method-names-and-instance-variables
&gt;&gt;&gt; Sphinx(http://sphinx-doc.org/ext/autodoc.html) should handle this properly 
&gt;&gt;&gt; and hide the methods from users who will not need to look that deeply.
&gt;&gt;&gt; Its a quick sed command for me to fix and fork this, is there a specific 
&gt;&gt;&gt; reason why these are not made "private" and if not what other methods do 
&gt;&gt;&gt; you all think should be included in this off the RiakObject itself?
&gt;&gt;&gt; Michael
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; -- 
&gt; Michael
&gt; 
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

