---
title: "Re: Riak 1.2 RC1 Release"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-07-13T17:31:13-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07934"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg07933"
author_name: "Gordon Tillman"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-07-13T17:31:13-07:00
---


Jared this is great news. There are some supremely-useful additions and 
enhancements in this release!

--gordon


On Jul 13, 2012, at 19:16 , Jared Morrow wrote:

&gt; Riak Users,
&gt; 
&gt; Today we are really excited to make available Riak 1.2 release candidate 1. 
&gt; Riak 1.2 is a huge release for us and we hope everyone enjoys the new 
&gt; changes. So like the 1.0 and 1.1 release we are providing the release 
&gt; candidate hoping that everyone in the community who is willing to give it a 
&gt; try will download Riak, run it, and tell us what you think. Although the "RC" 
&gt; signifies that we consider it final release quality, we still ask that you 
&gt; hold off for 1.2 final release before putting into full production.
&gt; 
&gt; So what has changed? Here is where you can find the current state of the 
&gt; release notes for 1.2. 
&gt; https://github.com/basho/riak/blob/1.2/RELEASE-NOTES.md
&gt; The major features that have changed are listed, but some fixed bugs are 
&gt; missing. We will be continuing to fill out the release notes until the final 
&gt; release!
&gt; 
&gt; Download here: http://basho.com/resources/downloads/
&gt; 
&gt; One thing you will notice is the downloads page has be reorganized a bit. Now 
&gt; each platform is under its own directory. Hopefully this will help remove 
&gt; some confusion when it comes to picking packages. Also, we've heard your 
&gt; pleas.. static links are now provided on the download page for those of you 
&gt; who deploy Riak via scripts.
&gt; 
&gt; As always, our whole team thanks our wonderful community (You) for your 
&gt; dedication and love for Riak.
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; The Basho Team
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

