---
title: "Re: Looking for a replacement datastore"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-08-17T06:01:32-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08309"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg08306"
author_name: "Alexander Zhuravlev"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-08-17T06:01:32-07:00
---


On Thu, Aug 16, 2012 at 04:20:50PM -0600, Shawn Parrish wrote:
&gt; Howdy Riak folk,
&gt; 
&gt; We're looking for a possible datastore replacement for our server
&gt; monitoring check results. Maybe some of you can offer feedback if
&gt; Riak is a possible good solution.
&gt; 
&gt; Each ping, http request, etc has a result with various metadata that
&gt; we store. We're looking at about 250 million results a month and that
&gt; number continues to grow.
&gt; 
&gt; We query this data for:
&gt; 1. last result (is the server up or down?)
&gt; 2. if it's up, when was the last 'down' and inversely when it's down,
&gt; when was the last up?
&gt; 3. Full detail of the last 5 results (to show recent results)
&gt; 4. Last 24 hours results (usually ~1440 results) to graph
&gt; 5. Results in a date range (example: all results from July 1 through
&gt; July 31)... this can be very large.
&gt; 
&gt; We currently use bigcouch (Couchdb) but the views and built in
&gt; \_all\_docs slow down with so many results and especially when we call
&gt; them with 'include\_docs', cause we need the details of the results as
&gt; well.
&gt; 
&gt; We're trying to trim down the total results stored by summarizing
&gt; older data and deleting it but that slows down Couchdb views even
&gt; farther.
&gt; 
&gt; Questions:
&gt; 1. Is Riak a possible datastore for this use case? Can I get so many
&gt; results, including all the details quickly enough?
&gt; 2. Do you know of another datastore that might be better?

I would recommend to take a look at OpenTSDB (http://opentsdb.net/).
-- 
Alexander Zhuravlev

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

