---
title: "Re: Is there a method for deleting buckets?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-10-14T22:24:05-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01299"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg01298"
author_name: "Dan Reverri"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-10-14T22:24:05-07:00
---


Hi Mark,

Alexander is correct; there is no way to delete a bucket, you have to delete
each key. A feature request has been filed for this issue:
https://issues.basho.com/show\_bug.cgi?id=79

Thanks,
Dan

Daniel Reverri
Developer Advocate
Basho Technologies, Inc.
d...@basho.com


On Thu, Oct 14, 2010 at 10:06 PM, Alexander Sicular wrote:

&gt; Hi Mark,
&gt;
&gt; AFAIK, "buckets" are a virtual concept serving the purpose of namespace
&gt; separation and as a way to isolate changes in default behavior such as
&gt; replication values, commit hooks, backends and the like. Currently with the
&gt; bitcask default backend, buckets are "free" in that they do not take up
&gt; resources on their own if, for instance, you were to have thousands of
&gt; buckets. The only concern when dealing with buckets is when changing the
&gt; default behavior as those specific changes are relayed around the cluster
&gt; over the gossip protocol. The more buckets you have that deviate from the
&gt; default the more information that has to be chattered around the cluster.
&gt;
&gt; That said, I believe deleting all the keys in a bucket will effectively
&gt; "delete" the bucket. Although, it was never really there to begin with.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; -Alexander
&gt;
&gt; There is no spoon.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Oct 14, 2010, at 10:05 PM, Mark Jarecki wrote:
&gt;
&gt; &gt; Hi guys,
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Just wondering if there was a method for deleting a bucket.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Thanks
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Mark
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; -Alexander Sicular
&gt;
&gt; @siculars
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

