---
title: "Re: Possibility of a CAS API"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-02-25T17:38:19-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06748"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06747"
author_name: "Reid Draper"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-02-25T17:38:19-08:00
---



On Feb 25, 2012, at 8:29 PM, Armon Dadgar wrote:

&gt; On Feb 25, 2012, at 5:24 PM, Reid Draper wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; I'm not convinced that a CAS operation is inevitably subject to data 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; races.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; There are proven techniques for avoiding races at the cost of latency,
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; which is acceptable in certain situations.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Correct, but as far as I know, there is no way to build a CAS system
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; on top of the primitives provided by the Riak public API. You need
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; a point of serialization amongst all of the replicas (for a particular 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; key),
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; which Riak does not provide, for availability reasons.
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; I think a point of serialization is not needed here. It should be sufficient
&gt;&gt;&gt; to add a new internal API for nodes to handle a two-phase commit, and
&gt;&gt;&gt; then the transaction coordinator (running on whatever node you make
&gt;&gt;&gt; the request to) can contain the logic to carry out the transaction.
&gt;&gt; If I understand you correctly, the "transaction coordinator" would
&gt;&gt; be a point of serialization.
&gt; 
&gt; Not a global point of serialization, other transactions would be unaffected.
&gt; It is my understanding that there is a new transaction coordinator for
&gt; each client request. So it is already always "serial" in a sense.

What I'm suggesting you need is a point of serialization for
at least a quorum of the replicas for a particular key. It doesn't
have to be global across the key-space.

It might be possible to do CAS with replicas without a synchronization
point, but I imagine such a discovery would be publication-worthy.
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

