---
title: "Re: The Riak Feature Wish List"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-08-12T13:17:08-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04370"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04369"
author_name: "Nicholas Campbell"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-08-12T13:17:08-07:00
---


Possibly Convore?

- Nick Campbell

http://digitaltumbleweed.com


On Fri, Aug 12, 2011 at 2:40 PM, Mark Phillips  wrote:

&gt; Hey All,
&gt;
&gt; A bit of an unfortunate development here...
&gt;
&gt; I failed to investigate Zendesk enough before launching this and it
&gt; turns out that it's not going to let us do what we need for this type
&gt; of interactive forum to work out. Specifically, there is no way to
&gt; enable people to register for an account on help.basho.com without
&gt; giving them full access to our enterprise ticketing system (which is
&gt; only given to paying customers).
&gt;
&gt; So I'm going to take down the page for the moment and look for another
&gt; way to do this. Sorry about any confusion and/or hassle this may have
&gt; caused for anyone.
&gt;
&gt; Also, if anyone has suggestions on how to better do this, don't be
&gt; scared to offer them up.
&gt;
&gt; Mark
&gt;
&gt; On Fri, Aug 5, 2011 at 3:10 PM, Mark Phillips  wrote:
&gt; &gt; Hey All
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; So there has been an elevated amount of discussion of late around
&gt; &gt; features and functionality that you would like to see in Riak. This is
&gt; &gt; fantastic, and we love hearing where you want Riak to go and how it
&gt; &gt; can better suit your various use cases.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; To date, there are two avenues for the community to recommend features
&gt; &gt; and code for Riak:
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; \* write the code yourself for a given feature and submit a pull request
&gt; &gt; \* make your thoughts and ideas known in a feature request on
&gt; issues.basho.com
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Based on the recent flurry of activity, we wanted try something a bit
&gt; &gt; different. We've just created a new page on help.basho.com called "The
&gt; &gt; Riak Wish List."
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; https://help.basho.com/categories/20011362-riak-wishlist
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Our hope is that this will give the community a forum to:
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; a) Log, discuss, and discover new feature requests
&gt; &gt; b) Vote on new and existing feature requests\*
&gt; &gt; c) Give aspiring contributors a pool of suggestions from which they
&gt; &gt; can start if they want to get ambitious and write code for Riak
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Ultimately we think this will give us a more unified view of what
&gt; &gt; think you need/want for features. And anything that adds more
&gt; &gt; transparency to what makes it into Riak is better for every one.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Let us know if you have any questions. I'm looking forward to seeing
&gt; &gt; this process develop. Keep the suggestions coming.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Thanks for being a part of Riak.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Mark
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Community Manager
&gt; &gt; Basho Technologies
&gt; &gt; wiki.basho.com
&gt; &gt; twitter.com/pharkmillups
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; \* We are not going to be able accommodate all feature requests. But
&gt; &gt; we'll do our best to prioritize the ones that a) fit with our internal
&gt; &gt; needs and b) are actually possible given the current architectural
&gt; &gt; limitations of a system like Riak.
&gt; &gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

