---
title: "Re: tuning riak for 100s of concurrent connections"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-02-25T12:27:34-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg02479"
author_name: "Wilson MacGyver"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-02-25T12:27:34-08:00
---


right, which is why I purposely accuess the same one over and over again.
and disable access to the riak cluster from all other systems.

On Fri, Feb 25, 2011 at 3:00 PM, Alexander Sicular  wrote:
&gt; os level cache caches chunks but shuffles when your access pattern is... 
&gt; random. caveat lots of factors.
&gt;
&gt; -Alexander Sicular
&gt;
&gt; @siculars
&gt;
&gt; On Feb 25, 2011, at 2:57 PM, Wilson MacGyver wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; It's not an actual use case. the actual use case is in fact fairly
&gt;&gt; random access pattern to
&gt;&gt; the keys.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; it's however a 6 node system, with 3 copies. I'd assume riak can cope with 
&gt;&gt; this.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I'd also figure the OS level cache would cache the bitcask chunk pretty 
&gt;&gt; quickly.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Fri, Feb 25, 2011 at 2:38 PM, Ryan Zezeski  wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; On Fri, Feb 25, 2011 at 12:45 PM, Wilson MacGyver 
&gt;&gt;&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;  I purposely have it grab the same key/value over and over
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; again.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Could the fact that your getting the same key for each request also be a
&gt;&gt;&gt; factor here?  Wouldn't this mean high contention on those vnodes?  Is this
&gt;&gt;&gt; an actual use case?
&gt;&gt;&gt; -Ryan
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; Omnem crede diem tibi diluxisse supremum.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;



-- 
Omnem crede diem tibi diluxisse supremum.

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

