---
title: "Re: How to make Riak work faster (writing)"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-11-02T05:16:03-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg09153"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg09152"
author_name: "Uruka Dark"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-11-02T05:16:03-07:00
---


I'm hitting just one of them.
At the beginning I tried to use the default settings (n\_val = 3), then I
started to create the bucket with n\_val = 2. I've tested a lot of
combinations to w, but I could not see any substantial improvement.
If you have any suggestion, please, let me know. I can do any test.

On Fri, Nov 2, 2012 at 9:04 AM, Sebastian Cohnen  wrote:

&gt; What level of concurrency are you using in your test setup? Are you
&gt; hitting both servers with your test? What is your n\_val and w?
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On 02.11.2012, at 03:42, Uruka Dark  wrote:
&gt;
&gt; &gt; Hi,
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; I'm new here and with Riak. If I do something wrong, please, let me know.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; I've made a Riak cluster with two identical machines: Intel core i3
&gt; 2.3GHz 4GB RAM 1TB HD. They are connected by a gigabit ethernet network.
&gt; Everything is working fine. I'm using a Bitcask backend.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; I've made a PHP script to do a performance test and find out how fast
&gt; Riak can be with these settings. What my script is doing is: to store 10000
&gt; objects with a 10K long data (string of 10240 x 'A'), and calculating how
&gt; many objects it stores per second.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Right now, using Bitcask backend, it can store roughly 68 objects per
&gt; second. It seems to be a small number to me, but I don't know too much
&gt; about Riak. I've tested the same script on a Couchbase cluster, with the
&gt; same settings, and it could store roughly 1000 objects per second.
&gt; Obviously, on Couchbase test, the data is not sent to non-volatile media
&gt; immediately. Data is kept in memory to acknowledge the reception as fast as
&gt; possible, and is sent to non-volatile media in background. I want Riak to
&gt; behave the same way to increase the "writing speed", but I don't know how
&gt; to do it or if it is possible. May be I'm trying to do something completely
&gt; out of the purpose of Riak.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; I've tested Riak with Memory backend too, but it achieved only 72
&gt; objects per second. I expected it to work faster with Memory backend, cause
&gt; there is no disk activity involved on it, but the final result is not that
&gt; high.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Again, I don't know if I'm trying to do something inappropriate. I think
&gt; I'm missing something.
&gt; &gt; Is there any way to do it?
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; If I could not make myself clear, please, let me know.
&gt; &gt; Thank you.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

