---
title: "Re: rebar_riak_core question"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-01-13T19:53:44-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06279"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06278"
author_name: "Jeff Thompson"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-01-13T19:53:44-08:00
---


Hey Joel,

Glad to hear you got things working!

Cheers!

Jeff


On Fri, Jan 13, 2012 at 6:11 PM, Joel Meyer  wrote:

&gt; Thanks for the response, Jeff. I switched to the multinode template, which
&gt; generates a reltool.config and has the right lines in it, so things are
&gt; working now. I'm also looking through the reltool docs and reading the
&gt; relevant sections in "Erlang and OTP in Action". I probably should've done
&gt; that long ago, but framewerk takes a more J2EE/app container approach, so I
&gt; haven't had to deal with it up to now.
&gt;
&gt; Thanks again,
&gt; Joel
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Fri, Jan 13, 2012 at 8:25 AM, Jeff Thompson  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hey Joel,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I can't speak to which templates to use, but the error you are seeing is
&gt;&gt; happening because you have a line with {boot\_rel, "freqserver"} but no
&gt;&gt; corresponding {rel, "freqserver", "x.x.x", []} release configuration.''
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Again, I apologize that I don't have a full answer to the questions you
&gt;&gt; are asking, but hopefully this helps you some in tracking down the issue.
&gt;&gt; You can find more on reltool.config here
&gt;&gt; http://www.erlang.org/doc/man/reltool.html if you haven't looked already.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Best of luck,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Jeff
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Thu, Jan 12, 2012 at 11:45 PM, Joel Meyer wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Hi,
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; I've got a riak\_core application based on 0.13.0 that I'm updating to
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak\_core 1.0. In the process, I thought I'd try moving it from framewerk
&gt;&gt;&gt; to rebar. For my initial attempt I used the riak\_core template, but when I
&gt;&gt;&gt; tried to build a release with reltool I got the following error:
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; [root@rocky:experimental/freqserver]# rebar generate
&gt;&gt;&gt; ==&gt; rel (generate)
&gt;&gt;&gt; {"init terminating in do\_boot","Release freqserver uses non existing
&gt;&gt;&gt; application freqserver"}
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; This got me looking at the differences between the riak\_core template
&gt;&gt;&gt; and the riak\_core\_multinode template. It looks like the riak\_core template
&gt;&gt;&gt; puts src in the src/ dir (and doesn't include things like the
&gt;&gt;&gt; handoff-handlers, etc) while the multinode template puts src in
&gt;&gt;&gt; apps/{{app\_id}}/ and includes more things. Could someone shed some light on
&gt;&gt;&gt; when to use which template? My application is currently deployed on more
&gt;&gt;&gt; than one node (84 currently).
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt;&gt; Joel
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

