---
title: "Re: Riak Adoption - What can we do better?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-04-19T18:39:42-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07253"
author_name: "Christiano Anderson"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-04-19T18:39:42-07:00
---


A book about Riak (both paid and freely distributed as PDF are good
idea), more snippets, articles, hands on tutorial, screencast and more
documentation.

If you want to spread out Riak to other countries, documentation in
other languages is a good idea (Portuguese, spanish, french, japanese,
chinese, and so on)...

Cheers

-- 
Christiano Anderson | http://christiano.me/
http://twitter.com/dump



On Thu, Apr 19, 2012 at 2:31 PM, Mark Phillips  wrote:
&gt; At this point Riak has been deployed thousands of times. This is excellent,
&gt; but as you can imagine we here at Basho feel this is just the tip of the
&gt; iceberg. We want everyone to be running Riak. The software obviously needs
&gt; to solve enough problems for people to want to deploy it. However, we need
&gt; to get the software into developers' hands before this happens.  So the
&gt; question is:
&gt;
&gt; What can we be doing better?
&gt;
&gt; I'm not talking so much about features in Riak itself. I'm more interested
&gt; in the other resources, tools, docs, processes, etc., that you think we need
&gt; to put in place or refine to take the Riak community from 1000s of users to
&gt; 100,000s of users. By virtue of being on this list, you've all spent some
&gt; time using or investigating Riak. As such, you're opinions and experiences
&gt; would be very valuable.
&gt;
&gt; Any comments, ideas, or thoughts you had would be great. On or off-list will
&gt; work.
&gt;
&gt; Thanks for your time. Long live the vnode!
&gt;
&gt; Mark
&gt; twitter.com/pharkmillups
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

