---
title: "Re: riak-python-client2, a rewrite of the official client"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-03-15T00:32:12-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06964"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06961"
author_name: "Russell Brown"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-03-15T00:32:12-07:00
---


Hi Shuhao,

On 15 Mar 2012, at 00:30, Shuhao Wu  wrote:

&gt; That would be most appreciated.
&gt; 
&gt; I just completed a very bare minimum higher level API that's similar to the 
&gt; current Python client. However, there's still a lot of work to be done. Once 
&gt; again, I'm just one lone student working in my spare time and I can't 
&gt; possibly think of everything. If we want to bring Python up to speed with the 
&gt; rest of the clients, I'll need more people helping me!
&gt; 

Out of interest, why rewrite from scratch? Why not contribute to the existing 
riak-python-client? Wouldn't it be less effort? And you'd be working with 
others by default since it already has a few contributors, including a real 
python luminary in Greg Stein. 

The sheer number of hours in the python client make contributing more 
economical than a total rewrite, don't you think?

Your stated aim of bringing python up to the level of the other clients is a 
current basho aim, it would be great to work together on this. What do you see 
as the principal shortcomings of the current client? Can it be fixed?

Cheers

Russell

&gt; Also, I have a general
&gt; plan of bringing riakkit to riak-python-client2 as well.
&gt; 
&gt; Shuhao
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Mon, Mar 12, 2012 at 12:50 AM, Jim Adler  wrote:
&gt; I'll certainly take a look at your repo and help where I can.
&gt; 
&gt; Jim
&gt; 
&gt; Sent from my phone. Please forgive the typos. 
&gt; 
&gt; On Mar 11, 2012, at 11:25 PM, Shuhao Wu  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; I'm not too familiar with PBC . I'm looking for individuals to help me as 
&gt;&gt; I'm just a student and only working on it in my spare time.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Shuhao
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On Mar 11, 2012 10:43 PM, "Jim Adler"  wrote:
&gt;&gt; This is great Shuhao! 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; I've had problems using the python client using multiple threads with 
&gt;&gt; protocol buffers. The exact same multithreaded code works fine with http 
&gt;&gt; protocol. So, any attention you can give to the pbc transport would be 
&gt;&gt; hugely appreciated.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Good luck! Can't wait to give your new client a test drive.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Jim
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Sent from my phone. Please forgive the typos. 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On Mar 11, 2012, at 12:31 PM, Shuhao Wu  wrote:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Hey guys,
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; I've been working with riak and python for the past couple of months, and 
&gt;&gt;&gt; I'm at the point where I'm ready to completely reimplement 
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-python-client. So.. I did/started. The project is hosted on github and 
&gt;&gt;&gt; under the same apache 2 license as the original client.
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; https://github.com/ultimatebuster/riak-python-client2
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Couple of key highlights right now:
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; 1. 2 layers of API, a very basic layer (Transports), which handles 
&gt;&gt;&gt; communicating with the server, and a high level API, which consists of 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Bucket, Object, and so on.
&gt;&gt;&gt; 2. Eliminated things like `set\_` and `get\_`. Made them just variables 
&gt;&gt;&gt; where possible
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; I'm still taking suggestions for how to reimplement RiakObject (now called 
&gt;&gt;&gt; RObject). Any feedback will be appreciated.
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Cheers,
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Shuhao
&gt;&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

