---
title: "Re: Nitrogen"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-09-27T00:56:42-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04889"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04886"
author_name: "Marc Worrell"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-09-27T00:56:42-07:00
---


Hello Mike,

When you want to use a framework with Riak support "out of the box" then you 
should try Chicago Boss.

I am wondering what your problems with Nitrogen are, maybe you can mail them to 
the Nitrogen list? There are many helpful people over there, and I haven't seen 
build-problems passing by on that list.

Same for Zotonic, when you run into problems: check the Zotonic users list.

But seriously, when you need a ticketing/reporting tool then you better check 
the various open source projects in that area. I have good experience with 
redmine, track and bugzilla. They work, have been tested very well, and have 
plenty of plug-ins and tools around them.

- Marc


On 27 sep 2011, at 04:50, Mike Oxford wrote:

&gt; Is anyone using this as a frontend for Riak?
&gt; 
&gt; I'm looking at using it, but the packaging is kind of wonky, thought
&gt; it's kind of based around Rebar (I'm trying to use it as a dep) so it
&gt; doesn't build clean in that situation.
&gt; 
&gt; Zotonic didn't work real well, even following tutorials and whatnot.
&gt; I haven't tried Chicago Boss yet, though that looks good.
&gt; 
&gt; I need to build out a ticket/reporting tool, and while I could do it
&gt; with erlydtl, using Misultin that I have already, I figured I'd try to
&gt; leverage existing code and hopefully save myself some work.
&gt; Of course, it's not rocket science so even a few days wasted with
&gt; frameworks is most of the project right there.
&gt; 
&gt; Anyone have any experience with these, backed by Riak?
&gt; Is it worth working around Nitrogen's wonky layout/building, or should
&gt; I move toward something else?
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks!
&gt; 
&gt; -mox
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

