---
title: "Re: Is Riak suitable for s small-record write-intensive	billion-records application?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-10-22T06:41:41-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08994"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg08979"
author_name: "Joshua Muzaaya"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-10-22T06:41:41-07:00
---


riak can well do this, but you will have to be strong and willing to learn.
If you want a faster solution for the same, have you checked out Couchbase
Server ( http://couchbase.com) , it too, can handle this data, and its
setup is painless, with already finished SDKs and stuff, JSON in-and-out
and built-in memcached Hashing. You can add or remove nodes from the
cluster at run-time.

This is not meant to down-market Riak, but you mentioned Billions of
records. Riak storage is known to have a few issues as data grows to
billions. However, Couchbase 2.0 has been kinda battle tested, using SQLite
at the storage layer. Get more info there.

So, besides riak, give couchbase a test too.

 
Designed with WiseStamp -
Get
yours



On Mon, Oct 22, 2012 at 11:23 AM, Jens Rantil wrote:

&gt; Hi Yassen,
&gt;
&gt; &gt; Any given node can be stopped or additional nodes can be added with
&gt; almost no interruption. If the active node is taken down, CARP will appoint
&gt; a new active node and its front-end will start accepting requests replacing
&gt; the gone node. New nodes will announce themselves to the front-end apps via
&gt; multicast.
&gt;
&gt; But CARP only handles when the \_machine\_ goes down, right? Have you
&gt; planned for the scenario when if Riak would go down, but the machine would
&gt; be responsive? If not, haproxy could be an option.
&gt;
&gt; Regards,
&gt; Jens
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;



-- 
\*Muzaaya Joshua
Systems Engineer
+256774115170\*
\*"Through it all, i have learned to trust in Jesus. To depend upon His Word"
\*
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

