---
title: "Re: what does member_status pending means"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-08-02T00:33:22-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08157"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg08156"
author_name: "hs raghu"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-08-02T00:33:22-07:00
---


Update:

 For some reason the ring appears to be unstable.

 Some node are unreachable intermittently. The ring includes 4 nodes
(1 laptop + 2 VMs on laptop + 1 separate host).

 I did install all of them according to procedure and added them to
ring after testing locally.

 The curl call to get some key values hang intermittently, at the
'member\_status' command at those instances show that some node are
unreachable.

 ============================== Unreachable Nodes
==============================
The following nodes are unreachable: ['riak@192.168.20.35', '
riak@192.168.21.59', 'riak@192.168.21.60']

 Any hint for debugging or pointer to documentation is appreciated.

regards,
Hrishikesh


On Thu, Aug 2, 2012 at 12:10 PM, hs raghu  wrote:

&gt; Hi,
&gt;
&gt; I am exploring Riak cluster of 4 nodes. All nodes are valid nodes, I
&gt; could query data from buckets from all nodes locally.
&gt;
&gt; However, following 'member\_status' is not clear to me.
&gt;
&gt; My queries are:
&gt; 1. I have very less data in this ring, and the data is already
&gt; replicated to each node (because I can query it locally). What the
&gt; 'pending' state?
&gt; Why only the first node to form ring (i.e. 192.168.20.81) shows
&gt; ring status 100%?
&gt; 2. Second node to join the ring shows pending 50%, what does this
&gt; mean?
&gt; 3. Similarly, 'transfers' shows that there are 3 nodes which waiting
&gt; to handoff 32 partitions. Since data is very less the handoff should have
&gt; been
&gt; completed long time back. Is there something wrong in
&gt; configuration?
&gt;
&gt; I tried to look for answers into documentation, however couldn't get
&gt; any detailed information about this. Any help or pointers regarding this
&gt; are highly appreciated.
&gt;
&gt; regards,
&gt; hsr
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; root@xxxxxx:~# /usr/sbin/riak-admin member\_status
&gt; Attempting to restart script through sudo -u riak
&gt; ================================= Membership
&gt; ==================================
&gt; Status Ring Pending Node
&gt;
&gt; -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
&gt; valid 0.0% 50.0% 'riak@192.168.20.35'
&gt; valid 100.0% 50.0% 'riak@192.168.20.81'
&gt; valid 0.0% 0.0% 'riak@192.168.21.59'
&gt; valid 0.0% 0.0% 'riak@192.168.21.60'
&gt;
&gt; -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; root@xxxxxx:~# /usr/sbin/riak-admin transfers
&gt;
&gt; Attempting to restart script through sudo -u riak'riak@192.168.21.60' waiting 
&gt; to handoff 32 partitions'riak@192.168.21.59' waiting to handoff 32 
&gt; partitions'riak@192.168.20.35' waiting to handoff 32 partitions
&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

