---
title: "RE: Getting Error reading	/home/u1c332/riak-1.2.1/dev/dev1/etc/app.config"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-12-19T14:30:37-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg09638"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg09637"
author_name: "Chenini, Mohamed"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-12-19T14:30:37-08:00
---


I installed Erlang R15B03 and re-installed riak but I am still seeing the same 
error when I start a riak node:

~/riak-1.2.1/dev&gt; dev1/bin/riak start
Error reading /home/u1c332/riak-1.2.1/dev/dev1/etc/app.config
Running Erlang ok

~/riak-1.2.1/dev&gt; dev2/bin/riak start
Error reading /home/u1c332/riak-1.2.1/dev/dev2/etc/app.config
Running Erlang ok

~/riak-1.2.1/dev&gt; dev3/bin/riak start
Error reading /home/u1c332/riak-1.2.1/dev/dev3/etc/app.config
Running Erlang ok

~/riak-1.2.1/dev&gt; dev4/bin/riak start
Error reading /home/u1c332/riak-1.2.1/dev/dev4/etc/app.config
Running Erlang ok




-----Original Message-----
From: Evan Vigil-McClanahan [mailto:emcclana...@basho.com]
Sent: Wednesday, December 19, 2012 4:00 PM
To: Chenini, Mohamed; riak-users
Subject: Re: Getting Error reading 
/home/u1c332/riak-1.2.1/dev/dev1/etc/app.config

Err, this should go to the list as well.

On Wed, Dec 19, 2012 at 3:59 PM, Evan Vigil-McClanahan 
&gt; wrote:
&gt; 1.2.1 is meant to be built with R15B01 with HIPE disabled.
&gt;
&gt; As for that error, it looks like erlang is producing some unexpected
&gt; output (the 'Running Erlang' part). It should be working, though.
&gt;
&gt; On my system, both R15B01 and R15B02 don't produce that output. Could
&gt; you try with one of those versions and see if that works?
&gt;
&gt; I'll see if I can replicate your behavior with R15.
&gt;
&gt; On Wed, Dec 19, 2012 at 3:48 PM, Chenini, Mohamed 
&gt; &gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I installed riak-1.2.1 and ran
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; make devrel
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; ~/riak-1.2.1/dev&gt; ll
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; total 16
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; drwxr-x--- 9 u1c332 wasgroup 4096 2012-12-19 15:23 dev1
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; drwxr-x--- 9 u1c332 wasgroup 4096 2012-12-19 15:23 dev2
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; drwxr-x--- 9 u1c332 wasgroup 4096 2012-12-19 15:24 dev3
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; drwxr-x--- 9 u1c332 wasgroup 4096 2012-12-19 15:25 dev4
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; u1c332@plun2102:~/riak-1.2.1/dev/dev1/etc&gt;
&gt;&gt; chmod 777 app.config
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; ~/riak-1.2.1/dev/dev1/etc&gt; ll
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; -rwxrwxrwx 1 u1c332 wasgroup 11848 2012-09-26 00:22 app.config
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; u1c332@plun2102:~/riak-1.2.1/dev&gt; 
&gt;&gt; dev1/bin/riak start
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Error reading /home/u1c332/riak-1.2.1/dev/dev1/etc/app.config
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Running Erlang ok
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I have Erlang R15B (erts-5.9) installed.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; erl
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Erlang R15B (erts-5.9) [source] [64-bit] [smp:2:2] [async-threads:0]
&gt;&gt; [hipe] [kernel-poll:false]
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Running Erlang
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Eshell V5.9 (abort with ^G)
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Do I need a more current version of Erlang?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Please advise.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Mohamed
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; ====================
&gt;&gt; This email/fax message is for the sole use of the intended
&gt;&gt; recipient(s) and may contain confidential and privileged information.
&gt;&gt; Any unauthorized review, use, disclosure or distribution of this
&gt;&gt; email/fax is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient,
&gt;&gt; please destroy all paper and electronic copies of the original message.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;

====================
This email/fax message is for the sole use of the intended
recipient(s) and may contain confidential and privileged information.
Any unauthorized review, use, disclosure or distribution of this
email/fax is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient, please
destroy all paper and electronic copies of the original message.
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

