---
title: "Re: Range Loop Timeout Error after (after disk space over limit)"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-07-16T08:29:29-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07959"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg07957"
author_name: "Ryan Zezeski"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-07-16T08:29:29-07:00
---


Arnaud,

The 'stream\_timeout' and 'emfile' should be correlated. Whenever you see
the 'emfile' you should see a corresponding timeout. The index server
errors causing the result collector to timeout later. First, adjust your
file descriptor limit and then go from there.

For the 1.2 release a "repair" command has been added to rebuild KV or
index data for a given partition. In releases before that you must reindex
all your data. You don't have to worry about removing the current indexes
as merge index will garbage collect that for you as it merges. As I said,
first I would fix the 'emfile' issue and then see if further action is
needed.

-Z

P.S. If you want to be absolutely sure what your FD limit is in Riak you
can `riak attach` and then `os:cmd("ulimit -n").` Make sure to use Ctrl-D
to exit from the Riak shell.

On Mon, Jul 16, 2012 at 5:21 AM, Arnaud Wetzel wrote:

&gt; Hi,
&gt; Friday evening one of our riak node has reach his disk space limit during
&gt; indexing in riak-search. Then after adding some nodes, some requests fail,
&gt; and it is impossible to find the correlation between requests with error or
&gt; those who succeed.
&gt; The errors are :
&gt; {{nocatch,stream\_timeout},[{riak\_search\_op\_utils,gather\_stream\_results,4}]}
&gt; {timeout,range\_loop}
&gt;
&gt; and sometimes (not always) :
&gt;
&gt; {{badmatch,{error,emfile}},[{mi\_segment,iterate\_by\_keyinfo,7},{mi\_server,'-lookup/8-lc$^1/1-1-',4},{mi\_server,'-lookup/8-lc$^1/1-1-',4},{mi\_server,lookup,8}]}
&gt;
&gt; So anyone else has experienced these errors ? Is it possible that they
&gt; come from the disk over limit error ? How can I try to repair merge index
&gt; data ? If it is not possible, what is the good process to delete entirely
&gt; all the indexes (only indexes, keeping riak datas).
&gt;
&gt; Thank you very much.
&gt;
&gt; Regards.
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Arnaud Wetzel
&gt; KBRW Ad-Venture
&gt; 13 rue st Anastase, 75003 Paris
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

