---
title: "RE: riak doesn't start on new Macbook Pro Retina"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-07-16T00:23:43-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07956"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg07953"
author_name: "Erik Søe Sørensen"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-07-16T00:23:43-07:00
---


Well, from the logs it looks like a normal and successful startup... consistent 
with the fact that a riak process continues to exists.
And the startup does not seem to be slow (which would cause a timeout for the 
script waiting for the node to come up); from logging starts to the node is 
ready takes just 2s.
It then remains to be determined why the start script reports timeout.

Either it can't connect to the node, or the check it attempts to make within 
the node (whether an Erlang process called 'riak\_core\_node\_watcher' is 
registered) never succeeds.
Have you tried attaching to the node, using "riak attach"? That would check 
which of the two things fail.

The pipe files are usually called things like
 /tmp/riak/erlang.pipe.2.r
(they exist in pairs: one to and one from the node).

/Erik

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
From: Steve Hull [st...@taskrabbit.com]
Sent: 16 July 2012 08:20
To: Erik Søe Sørensen
Cc: videlalv...@gmail.com; riak-users@lists.basho.com
Subject: Re: riak doesn't start on new Macbook Pro Retina

Hi Erik!

Thanks for the suggestions. I checked out /tmp but didn't see anything that 
looked like a pipe for riak... perhaps could you tell me what the file would be 
named?

Not sure which logs would be most useful, but please find everything that was 
generated attached.

-S

On Sat, Jul 14, 2012 at 9:40 AM, Erik Søe Sørensen 
&gt; wrote:
If I remember correctly, this may be a symptom that the pipe file on /tmp which 
Riak wants to use does already exists but is owned by another user. This 
happens if Riak has previously been run by a different user.
If it's not that, I suggest you provide the logs from the failed "riak start" 
attempt for further diagnosis...

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

