---
title: "Re: riak-dt"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-01-25T10:45:09-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg09886"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg09885"
author_name: "Sean Cribbs"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-01-25T10:45:09-08:00
---


Petter,

riak-dt is a prototype that we felt was workable enough to release but
has not been updated for changes in the upcoming Riak 1.3 release. For
the 1.4 cycle and beyond, we're investigating some other approaches,
including turning Riak KV into a CRDT.

The error you see is because the reltool.config includes the luke
application which is being removed for 1.3. Removing the luke-related
lines from rel/reltool.config will resolve the issue.

On Fri, Jan 25, 2013 at 8:02 AM, Petter Egesund
 wrote:
&gt; Hi
&gt;
&gt; I would like to use Riak, but counters is a must in this project. They are so 
&gt; handy :-)
&gt;
&gt; I tried to build the riak-dt, but the build-system seems broken. I get this 
&gt; when i do make devrel:
&gt;
&gt; ERROR: generate failed while processing /Users/petter/erlang/riak/rel: 
&gt; {'EXIT',{{badmatch,{error,"luke: : Missing application directory."}},
&gt; [{rebar\_reltool,generate,2,[]},
&gt; {rebar\_core,run\_modules,4,[]},
&gt; {rebar\_core,execute,5,[]},
&gt; {rebar\_core,process\_dir0,6,[]},
&gt; {rebar\_core,process\_dir,4,[]},
&gt; {rebar\_core,process\_commands,2,[]},
&gt; {rebar,main,1,[]},
&gt; {escript,run,2,[{file,"escript.erl"},{line,741}]}]}}
&gt;
&gt; Any clues?
&gt;
&gt; The riak-dt does also seem a little bit forgotten - no commits in a couple of 
&gt; months. Is it still planned?
&gt;
&gt; Cheers,
&gt;
&gt; Petter
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com



-- 
Sean Cribbs 
Software Engineer
Basho Technologies, Inc.
http://basho.com/

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

