---
title: "RE: Rspec Spec"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-12-06T08:02:43-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05872"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg05867"
author_name: "Yehuda Zargrov"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-12-06T08:02:43-08:00
---


Hi,

All of those work fine (and it says " Attaching to /tmp/riak/erlang.pipe.1 (^D 
to exit)")

But when I run again the "rspec spec" I get the error again and I don't see 
nothing in the debug console.

Yehuda

From: Sean Cribbs [mailto:s...@basho.com]
Sent: Tuesday, December 06, 2011 3:48 PM
To: Yehuda Zargrov
Cc: riak-users@lists.basho.com
Subject: Re: Rspec Spec

Yehuda,

Which Ruby, Riak, and Ripple versions are you using?

An explanation of the TestServer (and the more generic Riak::Node class): Its 
goal is to provide an in-memory-only Riak server whose data can be easily 
cleared at the end of each example. It accomplishes this by generating a 
sandbox of your existing Riak install (configured by the :source key) that 
points at a different directory (configured by the :root key, defaults to 
./tmp/riak\_test\_server in Rails). During the generation, it sets the KV and 
Search backends to use custom "test" versions that are in memory and include 
some functions to clear all partitions quickly. Once all the generation is 
done, it will start up the sandboxed node and connect to the Erlang console 
(similar to `riak attach`, but in pure Ruby). At the end of each example, it 
runs those clearing functions on the test backends via the attached console, 
wiping all data stored in Riak.

In order to debug this, you might try a few things in the generated sandbox:

tmp/riak\_test\_server/bin/riak start
tmp/riak\_test\_server/bin/riak ping
tmp/riak\_test\_server/bin/riak attach
(use Ctrl-D to detach)
tmp/riak\_test\_server/bin/riak stop

If all of those work, then we'll dig into why the Ruby code fails.


On Tue, Dec 6, 2011 at 5:00 AM, Yehuda Zargrov 
&gt; wrote:
Hi,

I'm trying to run some (empty at first stage) tests..

This is my spec file:

require 'spec\_helper'

describe AnalyticsController do
 describe "generate\_keys" do

 it "should generate one key" do

 end

 it "should add a {key, value} pair" do

 end
 end

end

and this is my configure block in the spec\_helper:

 RSpec.configure do |config|

 require 'database\_cleaner'

 config.before(:all) { Ripple::TestServer.setup }

 config.after(:each){ Ripple::TestServer.clear }

 config.mock\_with :rspec



 end

I get this error:
Failure/Error: Unable to find matching line from backtrace
 ArgumentError:
 Could not find or open pipes for Riak console in 
/home/yehuda/air/tmp/riak\_test\_server/pipe.

Any Ideas?
And by the way, does RSpect uses local riak to run the tests? Or does it run an 
in-memory riak for that purpose?

Thanks,


[cid:image001.gif@01CCB441.229FBE70]

Yehuda Zargrov
Software Engineer
Conduit Your Site 
t: 972.8.9461713 ext +314 | m: +972503473119 | f: 
+97286382140


This message may contain confidential and/or privileged information. It is 
intended to be read only by the individual or entity to whom it is addressed or 
by their designee.
If the reader of this message is not the intended recipient, you are on notice 
that any uses, copy, disclose or distribution of this message, in any form, is 
strictly prohibited.
If you have received this message in error, please notify the sender by reply 
email or by telephone and delete or destroy any copy of this message. Thank you.

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com



--
Sean Cribbs &gt;
Developer Advocate
Basho Technologies, Inc.
http://www.basho.com/

&lt;&gt;\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

