---
title: "Re: Getting all the Keys"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-01-22T10:35:03-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg02060"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg02058"
author_name: "Alexander Staubo"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-01-22T10:35:03-08:00
---


On Sat, Jan 22, 2011 at 18:23, Thomas Burdick
 wrote:
&gt; So really whats the solution to just having a list of like 50k keys that can
&gt; quickly be appended to without taking seconds to then retrieve later on. Or
&gt; is this just not a valid use case for riak at all? That would suck cause
&gt; again, I really like the notion of an AP oriented database!

I have been struggling with the same issue. You may want to look at
Cassandra, which handles sequential key range traversal very well.
Riak also has a problem with buckets sharing the same data storage
(buckets are essentially just a way to namespace keys), so if you have
two buckets and fill up one of them, then enumerating the keys of the
empty bucket will take a long time even though it

&gt; Tom Burdick
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Sat, Jan 22, 2011 at 10:31 AM, Alexander Sicular 
&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi Thomas,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; This is a topic that has come up many times. Lemme just hit a couple of
&gt;&gt; high notes in no particular order:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; - If you must do a list keys op on a bucket, you must must must use
&gt;&gt; "?keys=stream". True will block on the coordinating node until all nodes
&gt;&gt; return their keys. Stream will start sending keys as soon as the first node
&gt;&gt; returns.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; - "list keys" is one of the most expensive native operations you can
&gt;&gt; perform in Riak. Not only does it do a full key scan of all the keys in your
&gt;&gt; bucket, but all the keys in your cluster. It is obnoxiously expensive and
&gt;&gt; only more so as the number of keys in your cluster grows. There has been
&gt;&gt; discussions about changing this but everything comes with a cost (more open
&gt;&gt; file descriptors) and I do not believe a decision has been made yet.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; -Riak is in no way a relational system. It is, in fact, about as opposite
&gt;&gt; as you can get. Incidentally, "select \*" is generally not recommended in the
&gt;&gt; Kingdom of Relations and regarded as wasteful. You need a bit of a mind
&gt;&gt; shift from relational world to have success with nosql in general and Riak
&gt;&gt; in particular.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; -There are no native indices in Riak. By default Riak uses the bitcask
&gt;&gt; backend. Bitcask has many advantages but one disadvantage is that all keys
&gt;&gt; (key length + a bit of overhead) must fit in ram.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; -Do not use "?keys=true". Your computer will melt. And then your face.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; -As of Riak 0.14 your m/r can filter on key name. I would highly recommend
&gt;&gt; that your data architecture take this into account by using keys that have
&gt;&gt; meaningful names. This will allow you to not scan every key in your cluster.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; -Buckets are analogous to relational tables but only just. In Riak, you
&gt;&gt; can think of a bucket as a namespace holder (it is used as part of the
&gt;&gt; default circular hash function) but primarily as a mechanism to
&gt;&gt; differentiate system settings from one group of keys to the next.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; -There is no penalty for unlimited buckets except for when their settings
&gt;&gt; deviate from the system defaults. By settings I mean things like hooks,
&gt;&gt; replication values and backends among others.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; -One should list keys by truth if one enjoys sitting in parking lots on
&gt;&gt; the freeway on a scorching summers day or perhaps waiting in a TSA line at
&gt;&gt; your nearest international point of embarkation surrounded by octomom
&gt;&gt; families all the while juggling between the grope or the pr0n slideshow. If
&gt;&gt; that is for you, use "?keys=true".
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; -Virtually everything in Riak is transient. Meaning, for the most part
&gt;&gt; (not including the 60 seconds or so of m/r cache), there is no caching going
&gt;&gt; on in Riak outside of the operating system. Ie. your subsequent queries will
&gt;&gt; do more or less the same work as their predecessors. You need to cache your
&gt;&gt; own results if you want to reuse them... quickly.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Oh, there's more but I'm pretty jelloed from last night. Welcome to the
&gt;&gt; fold, Thomas. Can I call you Tom?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Cheers,
&gt;&gt; -Alexander Sicular
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; @siculars
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Jan 22, 2011, at 10:19 AM, Thomas Burdick wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; I've been playing around with riak lately as really my first usage of a
&gt;&gt; &gt; distributed key/value store. I quite like many of the concepts and
&gt;&gt; &gt; possibilities of Riak and what it may deliver, however I'm really stuck on
&gt;&gt; &gt; an issue.
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; Doing the equivalent of a select \* from sometable in riak is seemingly
&gt;&gt; &gt; slow. As a quick test I tried...
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; http://localhost:8098/riak/mytable?keys=true
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; Before even iterating over the keys this was unbearably slow already.
&gt;&gt; &gt; This took almost half a second on my machine where mytable is completely
&gt;&gt; &gt; empty!
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; I'm a little baffled, I would assume that getting all the keys of a
&gt;&gt; &gt; table is an incredibly common task?  How do I get all the keys of a table
&gt;&gt; &gt; quickly? By quickly I mean a few milliseconds or less as I would expect of
&gt;&gt; &gt; even a "slow" rdbms with an empty table, even some tables with 1000's of
&gt;&gt; &gt; items can get all the primary keys of a sql table in a few milliseconds.
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; Tom Burdick
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

