---
title: "Re: efficient fetching of values falling in a key range"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-01-30T13:07:38-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06465"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06463"
author_name: "Russell Brown"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-01-30T13:07:38-08:00
---



On 30 Jan 2012, at 20:07, Dietrich Featherston wrote:

&gt; Yeah I had something that I thought would work then ran into some assumptions 
&gt; about handling of the existing bin / int query types. Started to introduce a 
&gt; higher level Index type that a generic RangeQuery could operate on rather 
&gt; than playing the combinatorics game with the existing AbstractRangeQuery 
&gt; subclasses. Got hairy enough that it's probably a good idea to let someone 
&gt; who has ownership over the codebase do this.

Just pushed a branch for this[1]: turned out to be really easy, a KeyIndex is 
just a BinIndex with no suffix. You use it like this

 val keys = 
bucket.fetchIndex(KeyIndex.index).from(startKey).to(endKey).execute();

Sorry that it is not going to be any use to you, but thanks for the spur to add 
it!

&gt; 
&gt; In the end I'm not sure if I'll even be able to use the key range queries. 
&gt; Problem is that this only fetches the keys but what I really need is to fetch 
&gt; the values behind these keys. Doesn't look like there is a riak operation 
&gt; that maps onto a leveldb seek + scan in each of the partitions to pull a 
&gt; range of values.
&gt; 

No, no there isn't.

[1] 
https://github.com/basho/riak-java-client/commit/8398f902c3db285b4217ad267800dc93f9ec96c7

&gt; 
&gt; On Mon, Jan 30, 2012 at 11:54 AM, Russell Brown  wrote:
&gt; Hi Dietrich,
&gt; I'm actually doing it now. If you had a look at it you'll see it is a bit of 
&gt; mess, what with the Query types and Index types and all that. I'm happy to 
&gt; keep going and finish. 
&gt; 
&gt; Cheers
&gt; 
&gt; Russell
&gt; 
&gt; On 30 Jan 2012, at 18:58, Dietrich Featherston wrote:
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Hey Russel. Any thoughts on when you'd get around to pushing to master? 
&gt;&gt; Since I'm actively working on this I'm happy to add KeyIndex to the RJC and 
&gt;&gt; send a pull request if that would be quicker.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On Mon, Jan 30, 2012 at 10:51 AM, Dietrich Featherston  wrote:
&gt;&gt; That's perfect thanks. I think I was presuming that the name of the 
&gt;&gt; underlying index was $key\_bin so this didn't cross my mind. Definitely agree 
&gt;&gt; with having a separated typed KeyIndex rather than changing how BinIndex or 
&gt;&gt; IntIndex work.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt; D
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On Mon, Jan 30, 2012 at 10:41 AM, Russell Brown  wrote:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On 30 Jan 2012, at 18:12, Dietrich Featherston wrote:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; I'm using a leveldb-backed riak 1.0.2 and looking for some suggestions to 
&gt;&gt;&gt; fetch a block of data by key range. I have control over the keys and all 
&gt;&gt;&gt; reads out of this setup will involve at minimum a key range. It seems that 
&gt;&gt;&gt; if leveldb is an ideal candidate for this kind of access pattern so long as 
&gt;&gt;&gt; I'm able to take advantage of that in the APIs exposed by riak.
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; First thought is to use the built-in $key index to do a query for the keys 
&gt;&gt;&gt; falling in a range, then fetch the underlying objects (either directly or 
&gt;&gt;&gt; via a map job). Doesn't look like this is yielding any results for a range 
&gt;&gt;&gt; known to contain data, however.
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Doing something like the following in the Java API yields no data
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; val keys = 
&gt;&gt;&gt; bucket.fetchIndex(BinIndex.named("$key")).from(startKey).to(endKey).execute();
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Whereas the same question phrased as a keyfilter map job does yield data
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak.mapReduce(query)
&gt;&gt;&gt; .addKeyFilter(new BetweenFilter(startKey, endKey))
&gt;&gt;&gt; .addMapPhase(new NamedErlangFunction("riak\_kv\_mapreduce", 
&gt;&gt;&gt; "map\_object\_value"), true)
&gt;&gt;&gt; .execute() 
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Perhaps there is something I need to do to make sure the $key index is 
&gt;&gt;&gt; built other than using the leveldb backend, but I couldn't find any 
&gt;&gt;&gt; evidence of that in the docs.
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Does this seem like a reasonable approach? If so, any thoughts on how I 
&gt;&gt;&gt; might be reading the key index incorrectly?
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; It is a bug/oversight in the RJC, when you do BinIndex.named("$key"), you'll 
&gt;&gt; get an index called "$key\_bin", which isn't the name of the index you want. 
&gt;&gt; I'll raise a bug for it and get a patch out. I think the best bet is to have 
&gt;&gt; a tagged type (KeyIndex ?) rather than change the way that BinIndex/IntIndex 
&gt;&gt; work. Sound ok?
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Cheers
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Russell
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt;&gt; D
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

