---
title: "Re: Reasons to think of MTU size and avg value size?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-08-20T10:14:58-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08333"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg08332"
author_name: "Patrik Sundberg"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-08-20T10:14:58-07:00
---


Thanks for reply. Just had the thought that if all my values are say 5k and
my MTU is 1500 that'd seem possibly unnecessary mismatch.

Just preliminary brainstorming from me, no well formed use case or testing
yet, just a question that popped in my head.

On Mon, Aug 20, 2012 at 6:10 PM, Sean Carey  wrote:

&gt; Hey Patrick,
&gt; You could try jumbo frames and it will buy you some extra CPU. We have
&gt; done this in a couple of configurations and didn't notice anything crazy.
&gt; Are you thinking increasing MTU might benefit in some other way, other than
&gt; CPU. I'd be interested in knowing your thoughts/results if you test.
&gt;
&gt; What kind of switches are you using?
&gt;
&gt; Also, I have never tried Super Jumbo.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Sean
&gt;
&gt; On Monday, August 20, 2012 at 10:54 AM, Patrik Sundberg wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Hi,
&gt;
&gt; I was just pondering a bit here - any pointers to think about in terms of
&gt; MTU settings for a network with a riak cluster and clients? (let's ignore
&gt; any other traffic on the network) It'd seem a good idea for MTU &gt;
&gt; median/mean value size (when we're talking about value sizes that aren't
&gt; huge, kilobytes), but then there's the internal chatter in the cluster etc
&gt; and it's not obvious what the trade off is.
&gt;
&gt; I didn't see it discussed in the mailing list much before.
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; Patrik
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

