---
title: "Riak Recap for Jan. 28 - 30"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-01-31T13:01:19-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg02159"
author_name: "Mark Phillips"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-01-31T13:01:19-08:00
---


Afternoon, Evening, Morning,

Hope everyone had a great weekend. Here's a short Recap from the last few days.

Enjoy,

Mark

Community Manager
Basho Technologies
wiki.basho.com
twitter.com/pharkmillups
----

Riak Recap for Jan. 28 - 30

1) David J. Göhrig wrote another great blog post on Riak (his second
in three days!). This one has some in-depth info on running Riak with
Varnish.

\* Read here ---&gt; http://blog.dloh.org/2011/01/varnish-cache-riak.html

Thanks, David!

2) Eric Moritz has a new repo up on GitHub called
"micromodelsext-riak". From the repo's description: "An extension to
micromodels to fetch/store/delete models in Riak."

\* Watch, Fork and Test Drive here
---&gt;https://github.com/ericmoritz/micromodelsext-riak

3) jbrisin, seancribbs and marksteele had a quick chat about how one
would approach ordering of keys in Riak.

\* Gist here ---&gt; https://gist.github.com/804658

4) Q --- Any tips on how to get the preflist for luwak blocks? Get
the keys for the blocks, hash, and get preflist? (from wrecked via
#riak)

 A --- Yup. That's exactly how to do it. :)

5) Q --- Anyone know if Ripple has support yet for key-filtering in mr
jobs? If so, any examples would be appreciated. (from danoyoung via
#riak)

 A --- Ripple does support key filters but there won't be formal
docs on it until the next Ripple release. Until then, source code
reading is your best bet. (Or send your questions to the mailing list,
of course.)

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

