---
title: "Re: Questions around Riak \"these days\""
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-08-30T12:57:21-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08410"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg08383"
author_name: "Mark Phillips"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-08-30T12:57:21-07:00
---


On Tue, Aug 28, 2012 at 6:46 PM, Mike Oxford  wrote:
&gt; On Mon, Aug 27, 2012 at 10:56 PM, Mark Phillips  wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi mox,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Welcome back. :)
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Thanks, good to be back. Been an odd run lately.
&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; As it stands right now, no. Still plain old boring Riak. If you want
&gt;&gt; custom resolution logic you'll still be doing that client-side with
&gt;&gt; something like Statebox or Knockbox.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Gotcha, thanks.
&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; As I said there's nothing in Riak now that solves this (though, to be
&gt;&gt; fair, it wasn't designed to act in this way). That said, all is not
&gt;&gt; lost. Sean Cribbs and Russell Brown are giving a talk called "Data
&gt;&gt; Structures in Riak" [0] at RICON in October. Joseph Blomstedt is also
&gt;&gt; giving a talk about some of the approaches that he and others on the
&gt;&gt; Basho team have discussed and may take to add consistency semantics on
&gt;&gt; top of Riak. (These talk details will be live tomorrow.) Now, there is
&gt;&gt; still a chance that, come October, nothing has changed and you'll
&gt;&gt; still be writing your own resolution logic and cursing Riak. But there
&gt;&gt; might be some conflict-free replicated light at the end of the
&gt;&gt; tunnel...
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Perhaps you'll join us [1] at RICON to find out? :)
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt; I'm hoping, though not 100% sure at this time. I was more curious along the
&gt; lines of something like Statebox being merged into Riak directly. You could
&gt; at least write the resolver "into Riak" and instead of spawning siblings it
&gt; could simply do the resolution right there, or keep track of which KVs have
&gt; siblings and slow resolve them (or even do lazy-style on next retrieve.)
&gt; Right now, if you have an Erlang client and a POST client you'll end up
&gt; needing to write two identical resolvers.
&gt; Then some "default" resolvers could be written, such as "append only." No
&gt; client work would need to be done at all, it would greatly extend the
&gt; functionality, lower barriers to adoption into write-heavy environments,
&gt; etc.
&gt;
&gt; Just a thought. There are times for full custom-resolvers so you obviously
&gt; cannot cover everything, but having the resolution done in Riak instead of
&gt; spread out to the edges at the client-side might be of value.
&gt;
&gt; Fingers crossed for RICON...
&gt;

Here are the full details on Joe's "Consistency" talk...

http://lanyrd.com/2012/ricon2012/sxxzb/

Hope to see you there...

Mark


&gt; -mox
&gt;
&gt;

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

