---
title: "Re: Access log file"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-08-10T18:50:53-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04338"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04337"
author_name: "Craig Muth"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-08-10T18:50:53-07:00
---


&gt; separate section rather than included in the riak\_kv section

Ah, that was my problem, thanks. It's a bit subtle on
http://wiki.basho.com/Configuration-Files.html what the "riak\_kv" label
applies to.

The log is very helpful. Any way to have it include the body of the post
and/or what was returned?

--Craig


On Wed, Aug 10, 2011 at 6:30 PM, Dan Reverri  wrote:

&gt; This part should be a separate section rather than included in the
&gt; riak\_kv section:
&gt; %% Enable logging
&gt; {webmachine, [{webmachine\_logger\_module, webmachine\_logger}]},
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Look at line 209 here:
&gt; http://pastie.org/2353333
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; The logger produces files in the "log/access" directory:
&gt; ls -al log/access/
&gt; total 8
&gt; drwxr-xr-x 7 dreverri staff 238 Aug 10 18:00 .
&gt; drwxr-xr-x 8 dreverri staff 272 Aug 10 14:59 ..
&gt; -rw-r--r-- 1 dreverri staff 0 Aug 10 14:59 access.log.2011\_08\_10\_21
&gt; -rw-r--r-- 1 dreverri staff 168 Aug 10 15:00 access.log.2011\_08\_10\_22
&gt; -rw-r--r-- 1 dreverri staff 0 Aug 10 16:00 access.log.2011\_08\_10\_23
&gt; -rw-r--r-- 1 dreverri staff 0 Aug 10 17:00 access.log.2011\_08\_11\_00
&gt; -rw-r--r-- 1 dreverri staff 0 Aug 10 18:00 access.log.2011\_08\_11\_01
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; Dan
&gt;
&gt; Daniel Reverri
&gt; Developer Advocate
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; d...@basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Wed, Aug 10, 2011 at 6:20 PM, Craig Muth  wrote:
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; Did you add the "http\_logdir" option to the "riak\_core" section?
&gt; &gt; Yes.
&gt; &gt; &gt; A pastie of your app.config might help as well.
&gt; &gt; http://pastie.org/2353285
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Will the log show a line for each request to riak (GET, PUT, etc)? What
&gt; is the name of the log file that's supposed to appear?
&gt; &gt; Thanks,
&gt; &gt; --Craig
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; On Wed, Aug 10, 2011 at 3:01 PM, Dan Reverri  wrote:
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; Hi Craig,
&gt; &gt;&gt; Did you add the "http\_logdir" option to the "riak\_core" section? A
&gt; pastie of your app.config might help as well.
&gt; &gt;&gt; Thanks,
&gt; &gt;&gt; Dan
&gt; &gt;&gt; Daniel Reverri
&gt; &gt;&gt; Developer Advocate
&gt; &gt;&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; &gt;&gt; d...@basho.com
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; On Tue, Aug 9, 2011 at 6:40 PM, Craig Muth  wrote:
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; I added {http\_logdir, "log/access"}, and {webmachine,
&gt; [{webmachine\_logger\_module, webmachine\_logger}]}, to rel/riak/etc/app.config
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; Where should the access log file be showing up? It's not showing up in
&gt; rel/riak/log.
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; Also will the log show a line for each request to riak (GET, PUT, etc)?
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; --Craig
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

