---
title: "Re: Python transports"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-09-08T04:51:06-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04617"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04612"
author_name: "Russell Brown"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-09-08T04:51:06-07:00
---


One big yes. Couldn't agree more, and it is the direction the Java client is 
moving. I think the .net client is either there or on the way too. Ditto for 
ripple, the ruby client. Makes perfect sense.

On 8 Sep 2011, at 12:31, Greg Stein wrote:

&gt; Hey, all...
&gt; 
&gt; After a couple comments on my recent work, and some archaeology on the
&gt; Python/Riak work over the past month... I've realized that I might
&gt; have a very different view of RiakTransport compared to what I'm
&gt; seeing in the current work. I figured it best to bring that to the
&gt; forefront and discuss:
&gt; 
&gt; In my view, RiakTransport is used by RiakClient (and others) to "talk
&gt; to the Riak server".
&gt; 
&gt; Some of the current work, and some proposed pull requests, seem to
&gt; take the position that a RiakTransport is "one connection to a server,
&gt; and the client should manage those".
&gt; 
&gt; Needless to say, I'm in favor of my own position :-) ... I think it is
&gt; best to transfer \*all\* responsibility for talking to the server(s) to
&gt; the transport layer. I really don't think the client/bucket/object
&gt; layers should know anything about talking to the server(s). I'd like
&gt; to see the transport layer be told about all server(s) available, and
&gt; then it Just Works.
&gt; 
&gt; I'm still a newbie with all this code, and need to keep plugging away
&gt; at the higher levels of functionality and compensation for problems.
&gt; I'd like to build up some code that contacts \*one\* given server, asks
&gt; for all of the ring servers, and then opens connections to those
&gt; servers. And then, it should (automatically) maintain client
&gt; connections based on what is happening with the Riak cluster. The
&gt; current (proposed) code manages connections to N servers, but has no
&gt; automatic add/remove based on changes in the cluster status. I think
&gt; this happens at a layer \*just\* above the actual transport. ie.
&gt; something tracks the changes in the ring status and its servers, and
&gt; transmits those changes into the transport layer, which alters its
&gt; communication with that cluster (regardless of whether that
&gt; communication is via HTTP or protobuf).
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; Okee doke. That's the end of my brain dump and future thoughts on the
&gt; transport and communication layer. I'd really like some feedback,
&gt; review, and thoughts.
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks!
&gt; -g
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

