---
title: "Re: RiakSearch solr multiply file Submit ?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-10-31T08:40:24-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01428"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg01427"
author_name: "Rusty Klophaus"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-10-31T08:40:24-07:00
---


Hi Prometheus,

Hmm... that's interesting... looks like your shell might be trying to expand
the wildcard rather than letting passing it through to Riak Search.

Try putting it in quotes, ie:

bin/search-cmd solr testwiki "/root/DATA/output/\*.xml"

Or if that doesn't work, escaping the asterisk, ie:

bin/search-cmd solr testwiki /root/DATA/output/\\*.xml

Also, out of curiosity, what does the system say when you type "echo $SHELL"

Best,
Rusty

On Sun, Oct 31, 2010 at 11:24 AM, Prometheus WillSurvive &lt;
prometheus.willsurv...@gmail.com&gt; wrote:

&gt; Hi Rusty,
&gt;
&gt; This is what I got when use \* in file name:
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; [r...@sft riaksearch]# bin/search-cmd solr testwiki
&gt; /root/DATA/output/\*.xml
&gt;
&gt; Usage:
&gt;
&gt; search-cmd set\_schema [INDEX] SCHEMAFILE : Set schema for an index.
&gt; search-cmd show\_schema [INDEX] : Display the schema for an
&gt; index.
&gt; search-cmd shell [INDEX] : Start the interactive Search
&gt; shell.
&gt; search-cmd search [INDEX] QUERY : Perform a search.
&gt; search-cmd search\_doc [INDEX] QUERY : Perform a document search.
&gt; search-cmd explain [INDEX] QUERY : Display an execution plan.
&gt; search-cmd index [INDEX] PATH : Index files in a path.
&gt; search-cmd delete [INDEX] PATH : De-index files in a path.
&gt; search-cmd solr [INDEX] PATH : Run the Solr file.
&gt; search-cmd install BUCKET : Install kv/search
&gt; integration hook
&gt; search-cmd uninstall BUCKET : Uninstall kv/search
&gt; integration hook
&gt; search-cmd test PATH : Run a test package
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; If I give only path like bin/search-cmd solr testwiki /root/DATA/output/
&gt; than its ok.
&gt;
&gt; Regards
&gt;
&gt; Prometheus
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Oct 31, 2010, at 5:22 PM, Rusty Klophaus wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Hi Prometheus,
&gt;
&gt; Can you tell me the exact error that it gives?
&gt;
&gt; Wildcard matching should work as follows (taken from the library
&gt; documentation):
&gt;
&gt; The wildcard string looks like an ordinary filename, except that certain
&gt; "wildcard characters" are interpreted in a special way. The following
&gt; characters are special:
&gt;
&gt; ?
&gt; Matches one character.
&gt;
&gt; \*
&gt; Matches any number of characters up to the end of the filename, the next
&gt; dot, or the next slash.
&gt;
&gt; {Item,...}
&gt; Alternation. Matches one of the alternatives.
&gt; Other characters represent themselves. Only filenames that have exactly the
&gt; same character in the same position will match. (Matching is case-sensitive;
&gt; i.e. "a" will not match "A").
&gt;
&gt; Best,
&gt; Rusty
&gt;
&gt; On Sun, Oct 31, 2010 at 11:18 AM, Prometheus WillSurvive &lt;
&gt; prometheus.willsurv...@gmail.com&gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi Rusty ,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I already tried. :) but it give error and trying to teach me sytnax as in
&gt;&gt; help :)
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; It is accepting : bin/search-cmd solr testwiki /root/DATA/output/
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; but gives error for :
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; bin/search-cmd solr testwiki /root/DATA/output/\*.xml
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; As you aware We are trying to do some benchmark test on riaksearch. We
&gt;&gt; have customers have billions of doc. Working with current lucene / Solr is a
&gt;&gt; operational nightmare ( yes it is).
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; So we are looking for a replacement for those customers. This is why we
&gt;&gt; are one of the early tester of the RiakSearch.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Best Regards
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Prometheus
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Oct 31, 2010, at 5:12 PM, Rusty Klophaus wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi Prometheus,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Yes, you can either put the files into a directory and then provide a
&gt;&gt; command line pointing to the directory, ie:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; bin/search-cmd solr index path/to/directory
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Or you can specify a wildcard using '\*':
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; bin/search-cmd solr index path/to/directory/\*.xml
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Best,
&gt;&gt; Rusty
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Sat, Oct 30, 2010 at 4:10 PM, Prometheus WillSurvive &lt;
&gt;&gt; prometheus.willsurv...@gmail.com&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Hi ,
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Is there anyway to submit more than one file in :
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; "search-cmd solr INDEX abc.xml ? "
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; it is not accepting \*.xml or 1.xml 2.xml in the same command line..
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; thanks
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Prometheus
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

