---
title: "Re: Does  Java client support search with paging and sorting?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-07-20T09:31:56-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08001"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg08000"
author_name: "Brian Roach"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-07-20T09:31:56-07:00
---


Hello Lei,

The Java client currently doesn't use the Solr API for search; It uses 
Map/Reduce. Sadly there's no support for those solr parameters. The only way to 
do it currently would be by adding phases to sort then reduce the entire result 
set which isn't exactly optimal.

We currently do have plans on improving this situation on both sides. We're 
adding new features to the protocol buffers API that will support the 'rows' 
and 'start' parameters which I am hoping to get into the client "soon". There's 
a bit of work there because it involves ripping out the old MR search stuff and 
retrofitting the new, which is going to require a bit of interface breaking as 
well above the old underlying PB client. I may also look at adding the 
solr-likeinterface to the HTTP side of the client after that. 

Unfortunately I don't have a good timeline for you. Hopefully in the next month 
for the PB additions is about the best I can offer at the moment. 

As for help, we're always thrilled when other people make contributions :) If 
you were to add in the solr API support to the original underlying HTTP client 
it'd be awesome. 

Thanks,
Brian Roach

On Jul 19, 2012, at 2:41 PM, Lei Gu wrote:

&gt; Hi,
&gt; We are exploring using Riak as our persistent storage for our next project.
&gt; Does Java client support search with paging and sorting, like the web solr 
&gt; api?
&gt; If yes, can you point one with class/method support it?
&gt; 
&gt; Here is an example with page and number of rows per page set,
&gt; 
&gt; curl "http://localhost:8098/solr/books/select?start=0&rows=10000&q=prog\*"
&gt; 
&gt; If not, is there a plan to add the support to the Java client? Can we help?
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks.
&gt; 
&gt; -- Lei
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; The information contained in this electronic mail transmission is intended 
&gt; only for the use of the individual or entity named in this transmission. If 
&gt; you are not the intended recipient of this transmission, you are hereby 
&gt; notified that any disclosure, copying or distribution of the contents of this 
&gt; transmission is strictly prohibited and that you should delete the contents 
&gt; of this transmission from your system immediately. Any comments or statements 
&gt; contained in this transmission do not necessarily reflect the views or 
&gt; position of GSI Commerce, Inc. or its subsidiaries and/or affiliates.
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

