---
title: "Re: riak-erlang-client issue with Riak EE 1.2"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-08-28T12:26:30-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08387"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg08386"
author_name: "Dave Parfitt"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-08-28T12:26:30-07:00
---


Hello Julian -
 
Map-reduce is still available, it's just not what riakc\_pb\_socket:search/\* uses 
under the hood anymore. Both map/reduce and Riak search functionality are 
implemented in the client using Protocol Buffers now.

The Map/Reduce functions are available here:
https://github.com/basho/riak-erlang-client/blob/master/src/riakc\_pb\_socket.erl#L454

and the Search functions are available here: 
https://github.com/basho/riak-erlang-client/blob/master/src/riakc\_pb\_socket.erl#L618

Cheers -
Dave

On Aug 28, 2012, at 3:06 PM, Julian wrote:

&gt; Hi Dave,
&gt; 
&gt; I don't see documentation up on basho.github.com for client 1.3.0, and
&gt; I don't see some of those include files referenced from riak\_pb (ex
&gt; riak\_search\_pb.hrl) in your repo, so I'll assume those are meant to be
&gt; internal. But how am I supposed to know how to migrate to the new
&gt; parameters? I was using mapreduce in the prior version to return
&gt; portions of the stored objects rather than the bucket/key. I was using
&gt; this anonymous js function:
&gt; 
&gt; function(v, keyData, arg) {
&gt; var o = JSON.parse(v.values[0].data);
&gt; var p = {id:o.id, account\_id:o.account\_id,
&gt; account\_type\_id:o.account\_type\_id, deleted:o.deleted, status:o.status,
&gt; hidden:o.hidden, currency:o.currency};
&gt; return [JSON.stringify(p)]
&gt; }
&gt; 
&gt; On Fri, Aug 17, 2012 at 6:22 AM, Dave Parfitt  wrote:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Hello Julian -
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; A new version of the riak-erlang-client [1] was recently released that 
&gt;&gt; changes riakc\_pb\_socket:search/\* to use protobuffs instead of map/reduce. 
&gt;&gt; Give that a shot first and let us know if it works for you.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Cheers -
&gt;&gt; Dave
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; [1] https://github.com/basho/riak-erlang-client/
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On Aug 16, 2012, at 6:51 PM, Julian wrote:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Hi,
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Recently, we upgraded our Riak cluster to 1.2. I hear that one of our 
&gt;&gt; buckets has been wiped and reloaded, but our index (Riak search is enabled) 
&gt;&gt; may not be in a consistent state. This has led to an error in code using 
&gt;&gt; riak-erlang-client 1.2, shown below.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; One of the intriguing things I find is that the exception is listed as 
&gt;&gt; occuring in one of my own processes that is doing json decoding, however I 
&gt;&gt; have checked the json by saving it to a file and it does not contain the 
&gt;&gt; data shown inside the 'struct' in the exception. The only explanation I can 
&gt;&gt; come up with is that the badmatch is occurring within riakc\_pb socket and 
&gt;&gt; was triggered by my call to riakc\_pb\_socket:search/6, and the process link 
&gt;&gt; is somehow influencing the crash report.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 1. Is there a newer version of riak-erlang-client that might fix the issue? 
&gt;&gt; I noticed that though labeled v1.2, it came out in April; has there been a 
&gt;&gt; client code update for EE 1.2?
&gt;&gt; 2. Would it help make my code more robust if I tried to filter out these 
&gt;&gt; not\_found's so it wouldn't reach the client? As in 
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/pipermail/riak-users\_lists.basho.com/2012-January/007075.html
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; (module names edited slightly)
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; =CRASH REPORT==== 16-Aug-2012::21:44:52 ===
&gt;&gt; crasher:
&gt;&gt; initial call: xx\_acl\_query:init/1
&gt;&gt; pid: &lt;0.159.0&gt;
&gt;&gt; registered\_name: []
&gt;&gt; exception exit: {{badmatch,
&gt;&gt; {not\_found,
&gt;&gt; {&lt;&lt;"a65796222ea26bb7b355bf140dbd5b72e81efee1"&gt;&gt;,
&gt;&gt; &lt;&lt;"000018e5-accf-fff1-8123-1efee1"&gt;&gt;},
&gt;&gt; {struct,
&gt;&gt; [{p,[0]},
&gt;&gt; {&lt;&lt;"account\_id"&gt;&gt;,[&lt;&lt;"0000005427"&gt;&gt;]},
&gt;&gt; {&lt;&lt;"account\_type\_id"&gt;&gt;,[&lt;&lt;"3"&gt;&gt;]},
&gt;&gt; {&lt;&lt;"id"&gt;&gt;,[&lt;&lt;"6373"&gt;&gt;]},
&gt;&gt; {&lt;&lt;"status"&gt;&gt;,[&lt;&lt;"Deleted"&gt;&gt;]},
&gt;&gt; {&lt;&lt;"type"&gt;&gt;,[&lt;&lt;"account"&gt;&gt;]},
&gt;&gt; {score,[1.0]}]}}},
&gt;&gt; [{mochijson2,tokenize,2},
&gt;&gt; {mochijson2,decode1,2},
&gt;&gt; {mochijson2,json\_decode,2},
&gt;&gt; {lists,map,2},
&gt;&gt; {lists,map,2},
&gt;&gt; {xx\_acl\_tree,from\_json,2},
&gt;&gt; {xx\_acl\_query,load\_instance\_,2},
&gt;&gt; {xx\_acl\_query,bootstrap\_accounts,1}]}
&gt;&gt; in function gen\_server:init\_it/6
&gt;&gt; ancestors: [xx\_cache\_sup,xx\_acl\_sup,&lt;0.108.0&gt;]
&gt;&gt; messages: []
&gt;&gt; links: [&lt;0.132.0&gt;]
&gt;&gt; dictionary: []
&gt;&gt; trap\_exit: true
&gt;&gt; status: running
&gt;&gt; heap\_size: 832040
&gt;&gt; stack\_size: 24
&gt;&gt; reductions: 30690459
&gt;&gt; neighbours:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Cheers,
&gt;&gt; Julian Pellico
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

