---
title: "Re: date fields for riak search?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-01-17T16:25:42-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg02013"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg02012"
author_name: "Gary William Flake"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-01-17T16:25:42-08:00
---


Here's a work around:

1. Define a schema with the date as a string and use the different whitespace 
analyzer:
 {field, [
 {name, "birthday"},
 {type, string},
 {analyzer\_factory, 
"com.basho.search.analysis.WhitespaceAnalyzerFactory"}
 ]}

2. Store dates as YYYYMMDDHHMMSS. Don't even think about adding '-' or ':' or 
' ' anywhere in there, as it will split the tokens.

3. Then, query ranges in the same format as above will do what you think that 
should.

-- GWF



On Jan 17, 2011, at 3:42 PM, Gary William Flake wrote:

&gt; I can find no documentation anywhere for the desired format for date fields 
&gt; in riak search.
&gt; 
&gt; I've looked at Lucene documentation thinking that it should be the same. 
&gt; From there I can see that Lucene made a significant transition at some point 
&gt; with respect to dates, but the documentation
&gt; 
&gt; http://lucene.apache.org/java/3\_0\_3/api/all/org/apache/lucene/document/DateTools.html#dateToString(java.util.Date,%20org.apache.lucene.document.DateTools.Resolution)
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; seems to suggest that the format is yyyyMMddHHmmssSSS. I tried this, but no 
&gt; joy.
&gt; 
&gt; I've tried using seconds since 1970, but at best this is only a stop gap 
&gt; because I have dates before 1970 that I need to consider.
&gt; 
&gt; I also tried using a standard field, hoping that lexographical ranges would 
&gt; work for me. Alas, I think the tokenizer is not indexing my dates because 
&gt; they don't look like useful things to index.
&gt; 
&gt; I am grateful for any hints.
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; -- GWF
&gt; 
&gt; PS -- Thanks to: Joseph Lambert and Rusty Klophaus for help with the numeric 
&gt; field issue; Jeremiah Peschka, and Runar Jordahl for helping with my question 
&gt; for sorted records, and Eric Moritz for pointing me towards Riak Search as 
&gt; the solution to that last issue.
&gt; 
&gt; 


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

