---
title: "RE: Cluster setup"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-12-12T07:11:28-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg09545"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg09535"
author_name: "Kevin Burton"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-12-12T07:11:28-08:00
---


I was just following the docs and they seem to set a different port or each
node but that was probably because the "Quick Start" was on one machine.
Thanks for the clarification.

Now I am running into a different problem. I joined one machine to the
cluster just fine. But joining the third node to the cluster results in:

[azureuser@bsicentos1 ~]$ sudo riak-admin cluster join riak@10.79.90.11
Attempting to restart script through sudo -H -u riak
Failed: This node is already a member of a cluster

But looking at the plan I don't see that it is "already a member". How is it
already a member?

[azureuser@bsicentos1 ~]$ sudo riak-admin cluster plan
Attempting to restart script through sudo -H -u riak
=============================== Staged Changes
================================
Action Nodes(s)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
---
join 'riak@10.79.108.25'
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
---


NOTE: Applying these changes will result in 1 cluster transition

############################################################################
###
 After cluster transition 1/1
############################################################################
###

================================= Membership
==================================
Status Ring Pending Node
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
---
valid 0.0% 50.0% 'riak@10.79.108.25'
valid 100.0% 50.0% 'riak@10.79.110.52'
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
---
Valid:2 / Leaving:0 / Exiting:0 / Joining:0 / Down:0

WARNING: Not all replicas will be on distinct nodes

Transfers resulting from cluster changes: 32
 32 transfers from 'riak@10.79.110.52' to 'riak@10.79.108.25'

-----Original Message-----
From: Shane McEwan [mailto:sh...@mcewan.id.au] 
Sent: Wednesday, December 12, 2012 8:58 AM
To: Kevin Burton
Cc: riak-users@lists.basho.com
Subject: Re: Cluster setup

On 12/12/12 14:32, Kevin Burton wrote:
&gt; Good catch! Thank you. If I have three machines that take up ports 
&gt; 8098,8099, and 8100 what do you suggest the handoff port should be? 
&gt; When is it used?

No problem!

Each machine can use the same ports as the other machines. You just can't
use the same ports on the same machine. Setting different port numbers on
different machines just complicates things for no reason. In theory, your
app.config file can (should?) be identical for all your Riak nodes in a
cluster.

So, for instance, if you decided to use ports 8098 for pb\_port, 8099 for
http and 8100 for handoff\_port then you could set those ports the same on
all three of your machines.

The handoff\_port is used for each node of the cluster to talk to each other.

Hope this helps!

Shane.


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

