---
title: "Re: Riak Adoption - What can we do better?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-04-19T10:59:36-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07240"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg07238"
author_name: "Vladislav Gorodetskiy"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-04-19T10:59:36-07:00
---


A bunch of screencasts is available on Vimeo channel of Basho at
http://vimeo.com/bashotech/videos/page:3/sort:newest by the way.

On Thu, Apr 19, 2012 at 8:53 PM, Alexander Sicular  wrote:
&gt; In a word: screencasts.
&gt;
&gt; Short, easy to digest, 2-5min screencasts on:
&gt;
&gt; -Installation
&gt;
&gt; -Usage via curl
&gt;
&gt; -Step by step walk through of all params in app.conf
&gt;
&gt; -Search. setting up index, querying index via command line. Explanation of
&gt; various analyzers.
&gt;
&gt; -Secondary Index usage. Curl examples.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; The whole thing could be done as a series With each cast its own "chapter."
&gt; update the content when something significant changes. Like the changes in
&gt; app.conf in 1.1.x.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Godspeed,
&gt; Alexander
&gt;
&gt; @siculars on twitter
&gt; http://siculars.posterous.com
&gt;
&gt; Sent from my iRotaryPhone
&gt;
&gt; On Apr 19, 2012, at 13:31, Mark Phillips  wrote:
&gt;
&gt; At this point Riak has been deployed thousands of times. This is excellent,
&gt; but as you can imagine we here at Basho feel this is just the tip of the
&gt; iceberg. We want everyone to be running Riak. The software obviously needs
&gt; to solve enough problems for people to want to deploy it. However, we need
&gt; to get the software into developers' hands before this happens.  So the
&gt; question is:
&gt;
&gt; What can we be doing better?
&gt;
&gt; I'm not talking so much about features in Riak itself. I'm more interested
&gt; in the other resources, tools, docs, processes, etc., that you think we need
&gt; to put in place or refine to take the Riak community from 1000s of users to
&gt; 100,000s of users. By virtue of being on this list, you've all spent some
&gt; time using or investigating Riak. As such, you're opinions and experiences
&gt; would be very valuable.
&gt;
&gt; Any comments, ideas, or thoughts you had would be great. On or off-list will
&gt; work.
&gt;
&gt; Thanks for your time. Long live the vnode!
&gt;
&gt; Mark
&gt; twitter.com/pharkmillups
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

