---
title: "Re: MapReduce questions"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-10-19T10:05:00-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08986"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg08985"
author_name: "Callixte Cauchois"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-10-19T10:05:00-07:00
---


Hey Mark,

really sorry if I sounded aggressive or whatever. English is not my primary
language and sometimes I do not sound as I wanted... I just wanted to
acknowledge that no answer was kind of an answer to my questions.
And yes, I will share how I would like M/R to behave for future reference,
even if it is not going to be implemented short or mid term. Unfortunately,
I do not speak Erlang, so it would be hard for me to contribute, even if I
would love to. Maybe, I'd feel extra adventurous and give it a try though.
Thank you for your response, and I also wanted to say that I love the new
documentation site, compared to how it can be a struggle to understand how
some competitors'product can be installed, it really kicks ass.

C.

On Fri, Oct 19, 2012 at 9:52 AM, Mark Phillips  wrote:

&gt; On Fri, Oct 19, 2012 at 8:48 AM, Callixte Cauchois
&gt;  wrote:
&gt; &gt; So... no answers.
&gt; &gt; I guess there are no smart minds at Basho working on M/R currently. Too
&gt; bad,
&gt; &gt; but I guess a company has to choose its priority.
&gt;
&gt; A lovely "good morning" to you, too.
&gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; as part of my evaluation of Riak, I am looking at the M/R capabilities
&gt; and I have several questions:
&gt; 1/ the doc states that " Riak MapReduce is intended for batch
&gt; processing, not real-time querying." But as of now, you always get the
&gt; results and cannot automatically store them in a bucket like you would
&gt; do with MongoDB for example. Is taht something that is on the roadmap?
&gt; &gt;
&gt;
&gt; This isn't something that's on the roadmap. That doesn't mean we won't
&gt; do it, but no one is working on code that does this at the moment.
&gt; That said, I'm told by one of our smart, busy minds here that works on
&gt; m/r that it would not be the most complicated addition. It may well
&gt; end up being part of future work but, again, there's no timeline on
&gt; it. In the mean time, any use case details you could share (short of
&gt; "like you would do with MongoDB") that would help inform the
&gt; development would be stellar.
&gt;
&gt; If you were feeling adventurous and wanted to write some erlang code,
&gt; this behavior could be written as part of map or reduce job.
&gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; 2/ Basho blog has two articles from last year on Hadoop on top of
&gt; Riak. Is this project still live? It is on github, so I can always dig
&gt; it up and work on it, but I am wondering if there is something like
&gt; Yokozuna for Hadoop integration.
&gt; &gt;
&gt;
&gt; The work on this specific code has stalled. That said, there are some
&gt; people using Riak in production alongside hadoop, and we have plans to
&gt; build deeper integration between the two at some point.
&gt;
&gt; As an aside, if you're looking for lower latency responses on
&gt; implementation questions, you might want to consider hanging out in
&gt; #riak on freenode.
&gt;
&gt; Mark
&gt; twitter.com/pharkmillups
&gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; On Tue, Oct 16, 2012 at 11:03 AM, Callixte Cauchois &lt;
&gt; ccauch...@virtuoz.com&gt;
&gt; &gt; wrote:
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; Hi there,
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; as part of my evaluation of Riak, I am looking at the M/R capabilities
&gt; and
&gt; &gt;&gt; I have several questions:
&gt; &gt;&gt; 1/ the doc states that " Riak MapReduce is intended for batch
&gt; processing,
&gt; &gt;&gt; not real-time querying." But as of now, you always get the results and
&gt; &gt;&gt; cannot automatically store them in a bucket like you would do with
&gt; MongoDB
&gt; &gt;&gt; for example. Is taht something that is on the roadmap?
&gt; &gt;&gt; 2/ Basho blog has two articles from last year on Hadoop on top of Riak.
&gt; Is
&gt; &gt;&gt; this project still live? It is on github, so I can always dig it up and
&gt; work
&gt; &gt;&gt; on it, but I am wondering if there is something like Yokozuna for Hadoop
&gt; &gt;&gt; integration.
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; Thanks.
&gt; &gt;&gt; C.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

