---
title: "Re: How to work with JSON objects using Erlang?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-02-09T10:57:18-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06569"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06568"
author_name: "Ori Bar"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-02-09T10:57:18-08:00
---


A good erlang library for JSON is https://github.com/davisp/jiffy

On Thu, Feb 9, 2012 at 7:27 PM, Jeffrey Eliasen  wrote:
&gt; I've been playing with Riak for a few weeks now using Python, and
&gt; JavaScript, so I have ~8M records in JSON stored in my cluster. Now I would
&gt; like to run a map/reduce job that adds links and index data to every item.
&gt;
&gt; From what I understand, this can't be done using JavaScript and map/reduce,
&gt; so I need to use Erlang. I've been learning Erlang for a couple weeks, but
&gt; I'm still pretty new to it overall.
&gt;
&gt; My question is this: what's the easiest way to manipulate this data? I see
&gt; three options:
&gt;
&gt; Learn me some Erlang and do it that way...
&gt;
&gt; Where can I find specific help in learning to manipulate JSON data using
&gt; Erlang?
&gt; Am I better off converting every node to Erlang data structures and just
&gt; using only Erlang from this point forward?
&gt;
&gt; Use Erlang but call Python code that does the data manipulation...
&gt;
&gt; Any good references for hooking into Python or other external code from
&gt; within Erlang?
&gt;
&gt; Use JavaScript but call Python code that does the re-writes back to the
&gt; cluster...
&gt;
&gt; This appears to be less desireable as M/R jobs will timeout quickly and I
&gt; can't configure this; any other gotcha's I need to know about?
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Thanks!
&gt;
&gt; jeffrey k eliasen
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;



-- 
Best Regards,

Ori Bar, Software Engineer
Nivertech Ltd

email:    ori....@nivertech.com
phone:   +972-52-2838429
www:     http://www.nivertech.com

The content of this message is Nivertech Ltd Confidential.  If you are
not the intended recipient and have received this message in error,
any use or distribution is prohibited. Please notify me immediately by
reply e-mail and delete this message from your computer system. Thank
you.

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

