---
title: "Re: Informal survey about Python client API changes"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-07-24T07:53:49-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08043"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg08041"
author_name: "Sean O'Connor"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-07-24T07:53:49-07:00
---


Sounds great to me. 1 & 3 wouldn't be too big of an impact in our code base 
and 2 would be a big win. 

-- 
Sean O'Connor
CTO/Co-Founder
(845)669-0883
http://focuslab.io



On Tuesday, July 24, 2012 at 9:53 AM, Sean Cribbs wrote:

&gt; Hey riak-users,
&gt; 
&gt; I've begun adding Riak 1.2-related features to the Python client. As I am 
&gt; doing so, I am reminded about how much technical debt exists in the client, 
&gt; as discussed at length previously on Github and this mailing list. Because I 
&gt; know some of you are using the client in production or as a component of 
&gt; another library, I'd like to assess what risks there are in removing or 
&gt; changing certain features. Here's my plan: 
&gt; Remove all the set\_r/get\_r-style methods for quorums. Instead, RiakBucket 
&gt; will have custom object-properties for these that let you set the 
&gt; corresponding quorums in the bucket-properties, but will not be the sort of 
&gt; cascading-preference behavior that it is currently. If you want to change a 
&gt; quorum when fetching, storing, or deleting a key, you can pass it with 
&gt; keyword arguments to the appropriate method.
&gt; Remove the edge-case-ridden ConnectionManager for a pair of resource pools 
&gt; for each protocol, like what is available in the Ruby client. Access to a 
&gt; connection would be granted via a 'with' statement, naturally, and the 
&gt; protocol selected would be based on the stated preference of the user, or on 
&gt; whether the transport supports the given feature. For example, stats would 
&gt; always use HTTP. We could also take this opportunity to add error-sensitive 
&gt; host selection and automatic retries to the client.
&gt; Merge the RiakSearch class into the RiakClient class and push some of its 
&gt; functionality down into the connection classes.
&gt; 
&gt; I intend to make the Python client ready for the 1.2 release without these 
&gt; refactorings, but I would greatly appreciate your feedback before starting 
&gt; the above items.
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; -- 
&gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt; Software Engineer
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; http://basho.com/
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; 


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

