---
title: "Re: Custom Extractor Syntax"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-10-02T20:11:18-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04982"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04960"
author_name: "Ryan Zezeski"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-10-02T20:11:18-07:00
---


Greg,

Yes, use the new property going forward. The old property will still work
but at some point will be phased out. When that happens it will be
documented in the release notes.

You currently can't remove a bucket property. In the case where
rs\_extractfun is still set in a future version it shouldn't matter because
it will just be ignored by the code. However, I could maybe see this being
an issue if you wanted to change a property to no longer have any effect
(e.g. unset a custom extractor). Currently, as it stands, you could do this
by setting the property to `undefined` but that can only be achieved via the
Erlang client. We should probably have a way to set a sentinel value via
HTTP as well.

-Ryan

On Fri, Sep 30, 2011 at 7:51 PM, Greg Pascale  wrote:

&gt; Hi,
&gt;
&gt; Somewhere along the line, it looks like the mechanism for setting a custom
&gt; extractor changed slightly. The documentation now says to set a property
&gt; called search\_extractor with the fields mod, fun and arg.
&gt;
&gt; It used to be a property called rs\_extractfun with the fields language,
&gt; function and module.
&gt;
&gt; The old rs\_extractfun syntax still seems to work with 1.0, but I'm
&gt; wondering if I should switch over the new style to stay compatible with
&gt; future releases. This also brings up an interesting question - how do I
&gt; unset a bucket property?
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Greg
&gt; Clipboard
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

