---
title: "Re: Riak Recap for 9/17 - 9/19"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-09-20T11:15:42-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01109"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg01108"
author_name: "Scott Gonyea"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-09-20T11:15:42-07:00
---


While someone at Basho is welcome to tweak my suggestion, Riak does
allow you to approach #2 differently--albeit with added complexity.
You can enable siblings and add data into keys as you see fit... Then
reconcile(/+save) when you retrieve that data. That would allow you
to skip having to retrieve, parse, modify, and store your data when
you just need to make trivial updates/additions. When toying around,
I would store "breadcrumbs" in the metadata, to tell future
reconciliations how it should be folded together.

I'd be interested to hear thoughts on the practicality of this
approach, or see if anyone else is doing it.

Scott

On Mon, Sep 20, 2010 at 10:38 AM, Mark Phillips  wrote:
&gt; Morning, Afternoon, Evening to all,
&gt;
&gt; Here's a short Recap from this past weekend.
&gt;
&gt; Enjoy,
&gt;
&gt; Mark
&gt;
&gt; Community Manager
&gt; Basho Technologies
&gt; wiki.basho.com
&gt; twitter.com/pharkmillups
&gt;
&gt; ----
&gt;
&gt; Riak Recap for 9/17 - 9/19
&gt;
&gt; 1)  Q --- Will Riak Search use Riak or is it a separate technology?
&gt; (from jpartogi via #riak)
&gt;
&gt;     A --- Both - it's a product on its own, but it uses riak\_core for
&gt; distribution, and riak\_kv to store a few things.
&gt;
&gt; 2)  Q --- Who knows how can I update only one value in json-type
&gt; document (for example: {"cool": "1", "test": 2} - update only "test")?
&gt; :) Does it really require updating the entire collection? %) (from
&gt; Guest4390 via #riak)
&gt;
&gt;     A --- It's not a collection, it's a single opaque value. You must
&gt; update the whole thing at once.
&gt;
&gt; 3)  Q --- I have a Webmachine application which will be talking to
&gt; Riak. I was going to put application and controller logic in that
&gt; application and i am wondering if should instead be creating a "core"
&gt; OTP application with the business style logic in it and have the
&gt; webmachine app talk to that app which in turn talks to Riak? is that
&gt; the general approach that is taken? (from TheColonial via #riak)
&gt;
&gt;     A --- We recommend going with the latter approach. You're better
&gt; off to create a core app that talks to Webmachine and Riak separately.
&gt;
&gt; 4) Sean Cribbs spent some time hacking on an in-memory test server for
&gt; Ripple that dumps its data at the end of test runs. This should help
&gt; those of you who were looking for a straightforward way to prototype
&gt; and test your Ruby apps.
&gt;
&gt; Check it out here ---&gt;
&gt; http://github.com/seancribbs/ripple/compare/4737d67...ed9a65e
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

