---
title: "Re: Riak installation on Ubuntu Server"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-11-01T09:50:31-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg09110"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg09109"
author_name: "Jared Morrow"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-11-01T09:50:31-07:00
---


Kevin,

So you are on 12.10, which is one minor release past Precise (12.04) which
is the current LTS (Long Term Support) release. I haven't confirmed that
the Precise Riak package will work on Quantal, but I suspect it will be
fine. In version mismatches most issues you'll find will be on install
with dependencies. If this is something you will rely on for a business in
a production sense, I'd recommend using a LTS release like Precise (12.04)
instead and know that we tested Riak on that platform. If this is
for development purposes, you will likely be fine on 12.10. If something
complains on install with dependencies please let me know so I can respond
differently the next time this comes up on the mailing list.

-Jared

On Thu, Nov 1, 2012 at 10:44 AM, Kevin Burton wrote:

&gt; I can do a lsb\_release –a and I get:\*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt; \*\* \*\*
&gt;
&gt; Distributor ID: Ubuntu\*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt; Description: Ubuntu 12.10\*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt; Release: 12.10\*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt; Codename: quantal\*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt; \*\* \*\*
&gt;
&gt; \*From:\* Jared Morrow [mailto:ja...@basho.com]
&gt; \*Sent:\* Thursday, November 01, 2012 11:42 AM
&gt; \*To:\* Kevin Burton
&gt; \*Cc:\* riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; \*Subject:\* Re: Riak installation on Ubuntu Server\*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt; \*\* \*\*
&gt;
&gt; Kevin\*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt; \*\* \*\*
&gt;
&gt; As far as I know, the lsb\_release tool is installed by default on all
&gt; Ubuntu installs. You can use it to get the codename of the release like: \*
&gt; \*\*\*
&gt;
&gt; For Ubuntu 10.04 \*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt; $ lsb\_release -c\*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt; Codename: lucid\*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt; or Ubuntu 12.04 \*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt; $ lsb\_release -c \*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt; Codename: precise\*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt; You can also get the information from the /etc/lsb-release file directly.
&gt; \*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt; % cat /etc/lsb-release \*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt; DISTRIB\_ID=Ubuntu\*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt; DISTRIB\_RELEASE=12.04\*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt; DISTRIB\_CODENAME=precise\*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt; DISTRIB\_DESCRIPTION="Ubuntu 12.04.1 LTS"\*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt; \*\* \*\*
&gt;
&gt; Hope that helps,\*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt; Jared\*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt; \*\* \*\*
&gt;
&gt; \*\* \*\*
&gt;
&gt; On Thu, Nov 1, 2012 at 10:26 AM, Kevin Burton 
&gt; wrote:\*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt; I was looking at the options of installing Riak and there are several
&gt; options under Ubuntu: Lucid, Natty, and Precise. This is a Linux Ubuntu
&gt; Server. I am not sure how to tell which variant it is.\*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt; \*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt; Thank you.\*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt; \*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt; Kevin\*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com\*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt; \*\* \*\*
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

