---
title: "Riak Recap for 5/4"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-05-05T08:35:57-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00258"
author_name: "Mark Phillips"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-05-05T08:35:57-07:00
---


Morning, Afternoon, and Evening -

A few orphaned questions from IRC, a new PHP sample app, Riak.js
talking to Kiwi, and pointer a new Wiki feature for today's recap.

Enjoy -

Mark

------

Community Manager
wiki.basho.com
twitter.com/pharkmillups

------

Riak Recap for 5/4

1) Q --- The docs state in quite a few places that if I leave
riak\_web\_ip or riak\_web\_port undefined, the web interface will not
start This is partially true, in that riak does not start at all… Am I
doing something wrong, or are the docs misguiding me? (from Will| via
IRC)

 A --- You're not doing anything wrong. This is a bug, and it will
soon be squashed. Thanks for finding this!

 The ticket can be seen here -- &gt; https://issues.basho.com/show\_bug.cgi?id=143

2) Q --- when doc/basic-client.txt talks about $PATH\_TO\_RIAK what is
it talking about? There is no ebin dir in the riak root... (from Will|
via IRC)

 A --- We took another look and it turns out that we could have
been more clear here. Docs will be updated ASAP to fix this issue. The
best way to do this would be to export ERL\_LIBS and point this ENV
variable to the location of the riak libraries and not use the -pa
flag. If you are using a self-compiled install of Riak your ERL\_LIBS
path will be the apps directory:
export ERL\_LIBS=~/riak\_install/apps

If you are using a precompiled version of Riak your ERL\_LIBS would be
the following: /usr/lib/riak/lib

3) Grant Schofield (aka bingledac aka schofield) put together a small
PHP app that shows the basic usage of the Riak PHP library.

You can find it here -- &gt; http://github.com/schofield/riak\_php\_app

(it's also linked under the Recommended Resources section on wiki.basho.com)

4) @freshtonic put some time against getting riak.js working with Kiwi

check it out here --&gt;
http://github.com/freshtonic/riak-js/commit/96a4ec11a09d37dc426c57e34c9f6f0e5e4c8df4

5) Yesterday we launched the Riak Fast Track which is an addition to
the wiki that we are quite excited about. It's intended to get new
users up to speed on what Riak is all about and how it works.

There is an blog post covering it here -- &gt;
http://blog.basho.com/2010/05/04/introducing-the-riak-fast-track/
(hint - you will want to read it because there is swag involved)

The Fast Track can be found on the wiki here:
https://wiki.basho.com/display/RIAK/The+Riak+Fast+Track

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

