---
title: "Re: Cluster setup"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-12-10T10:18:11-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg09506"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg09505"
author_name: "Kevin Burton"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-12-10T10:18:11-08:00
---


I did these steps and while I see that Riak has been added to the system files 
(like /etc/riak). I don't see any links to auto start like in init.d. Do I add 
these links manually?

On Dec 10, 2012, at 11:32 AM, Jared Morrow  wrote:

&gt; If you are looking install and /etc/init.d support, you should really just be 
&gt; installing the packages. 
&gt; http://s3.amazonaws.com/downloads.basho.com/riak/CURRENT/rhel/6/riak-1.2.1-1.el6.x86\_64.rpm
&gt; is the package for Centos 6 found here 
&gt; http://basho.com/resources/downloads/. Building from source is there for 
&gt; those who need a feature not currently in a release, want to make additions 
&gt; to Riak, or are on an unsupported platform.
&gt; 
&gt; -Jared
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Mon, Dec 10, 2012 at 10:25 AM,  wrote:
&gt;&gt; I am looking at 
&gt;&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/cookbooks/Basic-Cluster-Setup/ which 
&gt;&gt; provides me with a lot of information. But I have one question. I have a 
&gt;&gt; source distribution and I have already done 'make rel'. Once I have 
&gt;&gt; performed all of the steps outlined in setting up a cluster how do I make 
&gt;&gt; sure that this configuration is restored when the machine reboots. I am 
&gt;&gt; assuming that it will involve something with /etc/init.d. Is there something 
&gt;&gt; like 'make install' that would shorten the process? How is the cluster 
&gt;&gt; information persisted so that each node will join the cluster when the 
&gt;&gt; respective machine comes up after a reboot? Thank you.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

