---
title: "Re: Riak memory usage higher than expected"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-08-21T12:55:36-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04400"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04389"
author_name: "Jacques"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-08-21T12:55:36-07:00
---


Thanks for the help. We've decided to expand the cluster and plan a future
analysis.

Thanks again!
On Aug 19, 2011 1:57 AM, "Nico Meyer"  wrote:
&gt; Hi Jaques,
&gt;
&gt; at least it is within a factor of 1.5 or so, could be worse :-).
&gt;
&gt; I believe some of the additional overhead is due to some intricacies in
&gt; Erlang memory management (or possibly memory management in general, like
&gt; fragmentation). There was some discussion about a similar issue on the
&gt; Erlang mailing list a while ago
&gt; (
http://erlang.2086793.n4.nabble.com/discrepancy-of-memory-usage-figures-td3618939.html),

&gt; but no conclusion.
&gt;
&gt; I just checked one of our riak nodes, and also saw a similar
&gt; discrepancy: 'erlang:memory()' (from the erlang shell of the node)
&gt; reported about 10Gb used, but ps reported about 13Gb of resident memory
&gt; for the beam.smp process.
&gt; After restarting the riak node the discrepancy became much smaller, 9Gb
&gt; to 10Gb.
&gt;
&gt; Cheers,
&gt; Nico
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Am 19.08.2011 01:40, schrieb Jacques:
&gt;&gt; This is very helpful. Thank you.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; We actually have two different key sizes, 9 key + 1 bucket = 10 total
&gt;&gt; And 11 key + 1 bucket = 12 total.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Sounds like both of those will get stored on a 64 byte boundary.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; That puts us at ~80gb of expected usage. We're currently at 110gb.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Coming from the java world, I'm wondering if there are any
&gt;&gt; intermediate objects that need to be collected?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; It sounds like you're generally saying that "it is what it is" for now
&gt;&gt; and just capacity plan around it.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; thanks again,
&gt;&gt; Jacques
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Thu, Aug 18, 2011 at 3:31 AM, Nico Meyer &gt; &gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Have you taken into account the size of the bucket name? is it 12
&gt;&gt; bytes for key+bucket?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Also there is some additional overhead that is due to memory
&gt;&gt; alignment requirements, depending on your CPU architecture.
&gt;&gt; I have done some tests on this for x86\_64 a while ago:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; size=55: overhead=9
&gt;&gt; size=56: overhead=8
&gt;&gt; size=57: overhead=23
&gt;&gt; size=58: overhead=22
&gt;&gt; size=59: overhead=21
&gt;&gt; size=60: overhead=20
&gt;&gt; size=61: overhead=19
&gt;&gt; size=62: overhead=18
&gt;&gt; size=63: overhead=17
&gt;&gt; size=64: overhead=16
&gt;&gt; size=65: overhead=15
&gt;&gt; size=66: overhead=14
&gt;&gt; size=67: overhead=13
&gt;&gt; size=68: overhead=12
&gt;&gt; size=69: overhead=11
&gt;&gt; size=70: overhead=10
&gt;&gt; size=71: overhead=9
&gt;&gt; size=72: overhead=8
&gt;&gt; Not much you can do about that, unless you want to use unaligned
&gt;&gt; memory, which is super complicated (replace malloc with your own
&gt;&gt; allocator) and has a huge performance penalty.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; So lets assume your 12 bytes are include bucket and key:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; 43 byte overhead + 12 byte keydata = 55 bytes, this is the number
&gt;&gt; of bytes allocated per entry. In reality malloc(55) allocates 64
&gt;&gt; bytes internally, so you total memory consumption is:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; 64byte\*3\*450Mio = 80 Gb
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; But if the bucket size is not included in the 12 bytes, and your
&gt;&gt; bucket name(s) has at least a size of 2 bytes we get:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; (43 + 12 + 2) bytes = 57 bytes, and in this case malloc(57)
&gt;&gt; really allocates 80 bytes inernally. Therefore:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; 80byte\*3\*450Mio = 100Gb
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Cheers,
&gt;&gt; Nico
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Am 17.08.2011 19:43, schrieb Jacques:
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; So if my math is correct, consumption should be around 70-80 for
&gt;&gt;&gt; me. Yet we see a usage over 100. I'm also notclear what the step
&gt;&gt;&gt; changes are. If you have any insights on these that would be
&gt;&gt;&gt; great. Thanks!
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; On Aug 17, 2011 12:07 AM, "Nico Meyer" &gt;&gt; &gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; Hi Jacques,
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; please read my reply back in May, which should clear things up:
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
http://lists.basho.com/pipermail/riak-users\_lists.basho.com/2011-May/004292.html
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; Cheers,
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; Nico
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; On 16.08.2011 21:09, Jacques wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; We're utilizing Riak 14.2 and we're seeing higher memory
&gt;&gt;&gt; consumption
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; than we expect.
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; We're running on a 4 node cluster with each node housing 32gb
&gt;&gt;&gt; of memory
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; and are utilizing bitcask with a 3x write replication factor.
&gt;&gt;&gt; We're
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; seeing faster growth than we expect and also seeing weird
&gt;&gt;&gt; bounces update.
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; You can see an example chart
&gt;&gt;&gt; .
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; (note, there are sometimes where we've had to stop the job for
&gt;&gt;&gt; short
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; periods of time-- you can see these as flat spots).
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; We are doing a large throttled import that has key sizes of
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; approximately 12 bytes. We're currently around 450mm unique
&gt;&gt;&gt; items and
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; riak memory consumption is ~110gb. The input job is probably
&gt;&gt;&gt; 95% new
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; puts and 5% overwriting puts.
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; According to the capacity planner tools, our key space should
&gt;&gt;&gt; probably
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; be about half what are actual memory consumption is.
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; As you can see in the chart, we're also seeing jumps in memory
&gt;&gt;&gt; size at
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; random intervals. What might these be? Nothing interesting in
&gt;&gt;&gt; the logs
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; that I can see. Regular merges.
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; A close up  of a recent
&gt;&gt;&gt; jump in
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; memory consumption for one of the nodes (they all look the
&gt;&gt;&gt; same). There
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; are no corresponding distinct patterns within the cpu chart.
&gt;&gt;&gt; Things are
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; pretty flat although we have more wait sometimes than we like
&gt;&gt;&gt; (need more
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; spindles clearly).
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; Any helpful thoughts?
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; Jacques
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com 
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

