---
title: "Re: riaksearch memory growth issues"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-06-07T13:53:08-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03601"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg03579"
author_name: "Gordon Tillman"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-06-07T13:53:08-07:00
---


Thanks David,

If there is anything I can do from this end to help please don't hesitate to 
ask.

--gordon

On Jun 7, 2011, at 15:34 , David Smith wrote:

&gt; Gordon,
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks for the test case. I've queued it up for review by a dev, as
&gt; time permits.
&gt; 
&gt; D.
&gt; 
&gt; On Tue, Jun 7, 2011 at 1:33 PM, Gordon Tillman  wrote:
&gt;&gt; Guys I have put together a simple test to reproduce the error that we are
&gt;&gt; seeing.
&gt;&gt; It is on github here:
&gt;&gt; https://github.com/gordyt/riaksearch-test
&gt;&gt; This is a multi-threaded test that connects to Riak using the protocol
&gt;&gt; buffers interface. Each iteration of the run loop issues one simple search
&gt;&gt; and uploads one small json object.
&gt;&gt; Thanks very much for any input you might have.
&gt;&gt; Regards,
&gt;&gt; --gordon
&gt;&gt; On Jun 6, 2011, at 10:01 , Gordon Tillman wrote:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Good Morning Gilbert,
&gt;&gt; I have posted this gist:
&gt;&gt; https://gist.github.com/1010384
&gt;&gt; It is a minor update we made to it\_op\_collector\_loop/3 in
&gt;&gt; riak\_search\_op\_utils. This update was done to alleviate the situation that
&gt;&gt; we observe here:
&gt;&gt; https://gist.github.com/1000735
&gt;&gt; But it was made with the understanding that this is treating a symptom and
&gt;&gt; not fixing the cause of the problem.
&gt;&gt; A little bit of followup information: The problem seems to be exacerbated
&gt;&gt; when Riak is hit with a series of operations that are all generating the
&gt;&gt; same search/map/reduce operation (albeit with differing search input
&gt;&gt; parameters).
&gt;&gt; We installed 0.14.2 and tested this weekend (without our update applied) and
&gt;&gt; observed the same issues.
&gt;&gt; If I found out anything else I will let you know.
&gt;&gt; --gordon
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On May 31, 2011, at 18:09 , Gilbert Glåns wrote:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Gordon,
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Great news! Much appreciated.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Gilbert
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On Tue, May 31, 2011 at 2:25 PM, Gordon Tillman  wrote:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Howdy Gilbert,
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Hey we are testing a fix now. If this works I will send you a copy of the
&gt;&gt; update file.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; --gordon
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On May 31, 2011, at 12:55 , Gilbert Glåns wrote:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Hi Gordon,
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Thank you for sharing the information. We are seeing the same exact
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; type of behavior from our search cluster. I have tracked the
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; problem(s) though the query system. It looks like the mailboxes we
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; are both seeing are "abandoned" and / or the messages are never
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; matched within the Erlang code (it\_op\_collector\_loop,
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; riak\_search\_op\_utils.erl); the messages are then never processed,
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; therefore the resources they utilize never released. This is a major
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; problem.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; I have been debugging this for some time and I wish I could say it was
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; going well. The implementation is convoluted -- have you gotten
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; through it? Can you verify the same cause?
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; We have been internally discussing the possibility of removing this
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; query processing implementation completely and replacing it with
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; something built in-house because the problems we have uncovered trying
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; to debug the "abandoned mailbox" problem are related and systemic: 1)
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; indeterminate and possibly very large data structures created and
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; manipulated for intermediate and final sets of results, 2) very poor
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; or non-existent ability to gain any insight into what is executing
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; within the "plumbing" of the current query execution system without
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; "herculean" effort (in my opinion), and 3) unacceptable performance
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; (predictably or subjectively) from the merge\_index riak\_search
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; backend.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Are there any other backends available for riak\_search with the
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Enterprise Riak offering? I really like the design of riak\_search but
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; the performance seems to be only a very small fraction of our
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; equivalent SOLR installation, even with several times the amount of
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; resources "thrown at it" -- it does not seem to use resources we
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; "throw at it" well, either, or in the mailboxes case, responsibly.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; I will quickly admit I may be doing something wrong. Is there a
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; user-error situation in which mailboxes should be abandoned taking up
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; memory?
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Does anyone else have experiences with equivalent riak\_search vs. SOLR
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; installations?
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Thanks again for sharing Gordon. Your results make me feel like this
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; may not be entirely stupidity on my part.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Gilbert
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On Tue, May 31, 2011 at 8:51 AM, Gordon Tillman  wrote:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Howdy Gilbert,
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; I reproduced the issue this morning and then ran the command that you
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; specified on two of the non-empty mailboxes.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; The output from that is posted here:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; https://gist.github.com/1000735
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Please let me know if this corresponds to the issue that you are seeing.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Thank you,
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; --gordon
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On May 27, 2011, at 20:10 , Gilbert Glåns wrote:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Gordon,
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Could you try:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; erlang:process\_info(list\_to\_pid("&lt;0.16614.32&gt;"), [messages,
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; current\_function, initial\_call, links, memory, status]).
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; in a riak search console for one/some of those mailboxes and share the
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; results? I am curious to see if you are having the same systemic
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; memory consumption I am experiencing.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Gilbert
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On Fri, May 27, 2011 at 5:15 PM, Gordon Tillman  wrote:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Howdy Gang,
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; We are having a bit of an issue with our 3-node riaksearch cluster. What is
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; happing is this:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Cluster is up and running. We start testing our application against it. As
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; the application runs the erlang process consumes more and more memory
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; without ever releasing it.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; In trying to investigate the issue we ran the riaksearch-admin cluster\_info
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; command. It appears that the bulk of this memory is being consumed by a
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; bunch of mailboxes.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; I have posted both the output of the cluster\_info command and the app.config
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; from one of the nodes here:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; https://gist.github.com/996419
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; I would be very grateful if someone from Basho would take a look at the
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; cluster\_info and see if they can spot anything obvious.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Each machine in the cluster has an 8-core Xeon and 16GB RAM. I believe all
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; of the platform details, etc., are in the cluster\_info dump.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Many thanks,
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; --gordon
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; -- 
&gt; Dave Smith
&gt; Director, Engineering
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; diz...@basho.com


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

