---
title: "Re: Windows"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-02-20T05:19:28-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06651"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06650"
author_name: "Jeremiah Peschka"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-02-20T05:19:28-08:00
---


Bitcask and LevelDB are pluggable back ends for Riak. Bitcask is the default, 
and LevekDB is needed right now for secondary indexes.

Windows was once POSIX compliant for about 15 minutes, then Microsoft changed 
their mind. What this means is that you need to write wrappers around how 
Windows handles file access. Windows also uses a completely different 
networking API. Since Riak relies heavily on both network and I/O, porting it 
to Windows is problematic.

You will find this a lot in many robust, multi-node databases. Windows presents 
problems because of how different it is. It's not a good thing or a bad thing, 
it's just something you have to keep in mind.

Just sell your solution to your clients as an appliance that they shouldn't 
touch. ;)

---
Jeremiah Peschka, Managing Director, Brent Ozar PLF, LLC
Microsoft SQL Server MVP

On Feb 19, 2012, at 11:35 PM, Aleksandr Vinokurov  
wrote:

&gt; My company have customers with hardware and software they already invest 
&gt; money in. Like Windows, HP-UX, Solaris and RHELinux.
&gt; We are prototyping a new system with the scalability as major clue. We've 
&gt; decided to use Erlang and want to try RIAK. But we have to support HW our 
&gt; customers have.
&gt; 
&gt; I'm very-very newb to RIAK for now. I've stuck to the 45-min intro page on 
&gt; the Basho site: being unable to just create a three-node cluster :) So I 
&gt; don't know the structure and components of the RIAK. Are LevelDB and Bitcask 
&gt; stay as options and it can be configured to use smth. different pluggable to 
&gt; the library interface (internal RIAK API for K/V storage library or smth. 
&gt; like that). It's also why I'm confused with "File access, io scheduling and 
&gt; the like..." -- were there any interfaces used in developing to whom 
&gt; the-new-windows library can conform to?
&gt; 
&gt; With all the respect,
&gt; Aleksandr
&gt; 
&gt; On 20 February 2012 11:15, Alexander Sicular  wrote:
&gt; I'm sure it would take a while but I'm just gonna drop two reasons that 
&gt; immediately come to mind. Bitcask and leveldb. File access, io scheduling and 
&gt; the like are different between \*nix and windows. I imagine it would take 
&gt; quite a while to qualify just those two components for production use in a 
&gt; windows environment.
&gt; 
&gt; On the flip side, I've been on this list a while and I think this is the 
&gt; first time I've seen interest in running riak on windows. I'm generally 
&gt; curious what the use case for that would be vs an \*nix based deployment.
&gt; 
&gt; Salutations and whatnot,
&gt; -Alexander Sicular
&gt; 
&gt; @siculars
&gt; 
&gt; On Feb 20, 2012, at 1:36 AM, Aleksandr Vinokurov wrote:
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Hello, Jared
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; If it wouldn't take long, can you pinpoint the major obstacles why this lack?
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; With best regards,
&gt;&gt; Aleksandr
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On 19 February 2012 19:33, Jared Morrow  wrote:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Aleksandr,
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; We currently do not support building or running Riak on Windows. We do 
&gt;&gt; support or have successfully been run on most Linux distributions, Mac OS X, 
&gt;&gt; \*BSD, Solaris, and SmartOS.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt; Jared
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On Feb 19, 2012, at 4:46 AM, Aleksandr Vinokurov wrote:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Hello all!
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; I'm stuck with the quest: why RIAK is not building ``make all'' on windows 
&gt;&gt;&gt; (with cygwin).
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; samsung@Kryzhovnik /cygdrive/c/erlang/riak-1.0.3
&gt;&gt;&gt; $ make all
&gt;&gt;&gt; fatal: Not a git repository (or any of the parent directories): .git
&gt;&gt;&gt; ./rebar get-deps
&gt;&gt;&gt; fatal: Not a git repository (or any of the parent directories): .git
&gt;&gt;&gt; fatal: Not a git repository (or any of the parent directories): .git
&gt;&gt;&gt; fatal: Not a git repository (or any of the parent directories): .git
&gt;&gt;&gt; ==&gt; cluster\_info (get-deps)
&gt;&gt;&gt; ==&gt; lager (get-deps)
&gt;&gt;&gt; ==&gt; poolboy (get-deps)
&gt;&gt;&gt; ==&gt; protobuffs (get-deps)
&gt;&gt;&gt; ==&gt; basho\_stats (get-deps)
&gt;&gt;&gt; ==&gt; riak\_sysmon (get-deps)
&gt;&gt;&gt; ==&gt; mochiweb (get-deps)
&gt;&gt;&gt; ==&gt; webmachine (get-deps)
&gt;&gt;&gt; ==&gt; riak\_core (get-deps)
&gt;&gt;&gt; ==&gt; riakc (get-deps)
&gt;&gt;&gt; ==&gt; luke (get-deps)
&gt;&gt;&gt; ==&gt; erlang\_js (get-deps)
&gt;&gt;&gt; ==&gt; meck (get-deps)
&gt;&gt;&gt; ==&gt; bitcask (get-deps)
&gt;&gt;&gt; ==&gt; merge\_index (get-deps)
&gt;&gt;&gt; ==&gt; ebloom (get-deps)
&gt;&gt;&gt; ==&gt; eper (get-deps)
&gt;&gt;&gt; ==&gt; eleveldb (get-deps)
&gt;&gt;&gt; ==&gt; sext (get-deps)
&gt;&gt;&gt; Pulling edown from {git,"git://github.com/esl/edown.git","HEAD"}
&gt;&gt;&gt; ERROR: 'get-deps' failed while processing c:/erlang/riak-1.0.3/deps/sext: 
&gt;&gt;&gt; {'EXIT',{{case\_clause,{error,127}},
&gt;&gt;&gt; [{rebar\_utils,sh,2,[]},
&gt;&gt;&gt; {rebar\_deps,vcs\_client\_vsn,3,[]},
&gt;&gt;&gt; {rebar\_deps,source\_engine\_avail,2,[]},
&gt;&gt;&gt; {rebar\_deps,require\_source\_engine,1,[]},
&gt;&gt;&gt; {rebar\_deps,use\_source,2,[]},
&gt;&gt;&gt; {rebar\_deps,'-get-deps/2-lc$^0/1-0-',1,[]},
&gt;&gt;&gt; {rebar\_deps,'get-deps',2,[]},
&gt;&gt;&gt; {rebar\_core,run\_modules,4,[]}]}}
&gt;&gt;&gt; Makefile:14: recipe for target `deps' failed
&gt;&gt;&gt; make: \*\*\* [deps] Error 1
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Seems I should read about Rebar...
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; I'm following a 
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://wiki.basho.com/Building-a-Development-Environment.html page, I'm new 
&gt;&gt;&gt; to Erlang and I'm lack of understanding why RIAK is not running under 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Windows? Erlang is running, but RIAK is not -- why?
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; -- 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Александр Винокуров
&gt;&gt;&gt; +7 (921) 982-21-43
&gt;&gt;&gt; @aleksandrvin
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; -- 
&gt;&gt; Александр Винокуров
&gt;&gt; +7 (921) 982-21-43
&gt;&gt; @aleksandrvin
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; -- 
&gt; Александр Винокуров
&gt; +7 (921) 982-21-43
&gt; @aleksandrvin
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

