---
title: "Re: riak on one node"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-10-01T17:42:54-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08780"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg08779"
author_name: "Curtis Schofield"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-10-01T17:42:54-07:00
---


Thank you Dmitry.

It is my instinct now that i have done this is that I am using Riak for a
wrong application of it - Actually after some thought and writing - I
believe that what i really need is a slow log and that can be created after
the fact and that I should continue to focus on using the local file system
and memory.

And I also came to the conclusion that a slow log implemented with
postgresql would be appropriate and have the durability i wish.


Thank you for your insights and response - I will use a pastebin / gist in
the future.


On Mon, Oct 1, 2012 at 5:36 PM, Dmitry Demeshchuk wrote:

&gt; Judging by the wiki,
&gt;
&gt; Changing the N value after a bucket has data in it is not recommended. If
&gt; you do change the value, especially increasing it, you might need to force
&gt; read repair. Overwritten objects and newly stored objects will
&gt; automatically be replicated to the correct number of nodes.
&gt;
&gt; Another possible thing is that you've been expecting an answer from 2 or
&gt; more nodes, while n\_val for the bucket was already set to 1. Can you show
&gt; your client code?
&gt;
&gt; But, before you do that, let me mutter a bit:
&gt;
&gt; 1. Storing cached data at disk? Okay, if you really want to do it, use
&gt; Bitcask, not LevelDB. Bitcask has expiration time for keys, and it \*might\*
&gt; save you from running out of disk space, unlike LevelDB. But using disk,
&gt; even the fastest SSDs for caching is mostly a bad idea in advance, no
&gt; matter how fast your caching database is.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; 2. One-node Riak isn't a good thing either. Riak literally shines when you
&gt; have a lot of nodes. The more – the better (well, I wouldn't build a
&gt; cluster of more than 200-300 nodes, due to Erlang "each-to-each" node
&gt; communication behavior). But large scale clusters, like 10+ – that's where
&gt; it shows the most strong qualities, that the other databases mostly lack.
&gt; We are running Riak in production and are glad of it. But we realised that
&gt; even running 3-4 nodes is generally pointless: you can hardly benefit from
&gt; this approach.
&gt;
&gt; In case of one node, I'll tell you what I generally tell people when they
&gt; ask abstract "Should I use Riak?" questions: if you are not sure what you
&gt; are doing – use something like Postgres. I'm not convincing you to stop
&gt; using Riak or something – it just seems you are trying to use it for a
&gt; wrong purpose, and instead of being satisfied with a product you'll
&gt; probably end up strongly disappointed.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; 3. From what I remember, secondary indexes are very slow (guys from Basho,
&gt; I'd be glad to be wrong, since we are eager to use 2i at some places, so
&gt; please correct me if they've become significantly faster). So, not only you
&gt; are trying to use a database that is meant to be distributed (so, even on 1
&gt; node involves extra overhead that wouldn't exist in non-distributable DB),
&gt; not only you are using disks, that are far slower than memory, but you are
&gt; also using 2i, which would make Riak even slower for you.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; TL;DR: You seem to be trying to use Riak for a very wrong purpose. Use
&gt; something that has been designed for caching stuff: memcached, CouchBase
&gt; (former Membase, don't mix it up with CouchDB) or Redis.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; P.S. Seriously, people, use pastebin or GitHub gists to post large amounts
&gt; of config/code.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Tue, Oct 2, 2012 at 4:06 AM, Curtis Schofield  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I do not believe that this is the best use of memcache - I have switched
&gt;&gt;&gt; to the filesystem for now - I could imagine this
&gt;&gt;&gt; system becoming very large and it would be useful to have a cluster
&gt;&gt;&gt; holding the server traffic.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; I think i meant to say - this may not be the best use of riak - it
&gt;&gt; may be better to use memcache.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Best regards,
&gt; Dmitry Demeshchuk
&gt;



-- 
---
Modern Yoga vs Traditional Yoga
http://swamij.com/traditional-yoga.htm#swamirama
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

