---
title: "Re: Solr indexes consume a lot of space for largebucket sizes"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-09-28T11:43:14-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04911"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04904"
author_name: "Jeremiah Peschka"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-09-28T11:43:14-07:00
---


Without knowing the exact internals of Riak Search, most of Riak uses log 
structured hash trees. When an "update" occurs, a new copy of the data is 
written. Eventually, during a compaction process, the dead records are cleaned 
up. There are rules for how often compactions run. You can change some of those 
settings for Riak Search: 
http://wiki.basho.com/Riak-Search---Operations-and-Troubleshooting.html

You can think of this as being similar to the ghost record clean up/vacuum 
process that runs in your favorite RDMBS (as long as that RDBMS implements some 
form of MVCC).
---
Jeremiah Peschka - Founder, Brent Ozar PLF, LLC
Microsoft SQL Server MVP

On Sep 28, 2011, at 2:26 PM, Harshal Dhir wrote:

&gt; Hi,
&gt; 
&gt; We are performing index on a "heavy" write bucket, and it seems its consuming 
&gt; a lot of diskspace. 
&gt; 
&gt; The logic is something like this:
&gt; 
&gt; "a", "b", "c" are the logical categories, we save combination of these 
&gt; categories 
&gt; 
&gt; "a b", "a c", "b c", "a b c" and so we are looking at lot of data. But, 10G 
&gt; is quiet a huge number. So, we are little perplexed as to why this number is 
&gt; so huge. Is it due to vector clocks, since multiple writes could be happening 
&gt; at the same time.
&gt; 
&gt; Again help is needed on this one?
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks
&gt; Harshal
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

