---
title: "Re: riak and The Beatles"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-06-05T04:07:02-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00505"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg00504"
author_name: "francisco treacy"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-06-05T04:07:02-07:00
---


Check out the Riak Fast Track in the wiki at wiki.basho.com. IIRC
there is an example with sample data from Google stocks.

But I agree there should be more.

Francisco


2010/6/5 Thomas Heller :
&gt; Howdy folks,
&gt;
&gt; I'm trying to get more into riak lately but my time is limited so I'm
&gt; still at the most basic level.
&gt;
&gt; Anyways, looking over every example I find (talks, blogs, etc) there
&gt; are always great examples how link-walking, map-reduce, etc is the
&gt; answer to all. But NEVER do I seem to find any source Data. I mean its
&gt; great that I can call something like:
&gt;
&gt; @ 
&gt; http://seancribbs.com/tech/2010/02/06/why-riak-should-power-your-next-rails-app/
&gt; GET /raw/artists/TheBeatles/albums,\_,\_/tracks,\_,1
&gt;
&gt; or something ripple style:
&gt;
&gt; @ http://github.com/seancribbs/ripple
&gt;
&gt; results = Riak::MapReduce.new(client).
&gt;                add("artists","Beatles").
&gt;                link(:bucket =&gt; "albums").
&gt;                map("function(v){ return
&gt; [JSON.parse(v.values[0].data).title]; }", :keep =&gt; true).run
&gt;
&gt; and get a bunch of Beatles tracks but would anyone mind showing the
&gt; the source data?
&gt;
&gt; How would the artist/album/track documents look like?
&gt; What would their links look like?
&gt;
&gt; I appreciate the effort to evangilize Riak and probably can work all
&gt; that out by myself but that would require alot more time than just
&gt; looking at some simple examples (with DATA). I can understand that you
&gt; probably dont want to "enforce" a Schema upon people by building a
&gt; defacto "reference" app but at least back up your examples with the
&gt; underlying data, even if its just for one artist/album/track relation.
&gt;
&gt; Sorry for the rant.
&gt;
&gt; Cheers,
&gt; /thomas
&gt;
&gt; PS: Sorry Sean for only including examples from your Posts, there are
&gt; others too.
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

