---
title: "Re: riak-ql"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-07-26T20:39:10-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04087"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04083"
author_name: "Kev Burns"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-07-26T20:39:10-07:00
---


Well... you would think that doing a map/reduce across a smaller bucket
would take less time but this isn't as true as you might think.
If I remember correctly, Riak doesn't store bucket/key values in memory, it
just stores the hash.
So if you use {"inputs": "Messages\_Rohman", ... }, it hast to test every key
in memory to see if any of them is in the bucket you specified.

See here
http://wiki.basho.com/MapReduce.html#Inputs

You may also pass just the name of a bucket ({"inputs":"mybucket",...}),
&gt; which is equivalent to passing all of the keys in that bucket as inputs
&gt; (i.e. “a map/reduce across the whole bucket”). You should be aware that this
&gt; triggers the somewhat expensive “list keys” operation, so you should use it
&gt; sparingly.
&gt;

Here "somewhat expensive" is an understatement.
If you have more than 10,000 keys, list keys could take several minutes.
Even if your bucket only has 10 keys.
A better solution right now is to use key filters or a search input to the
map/reduce.

A bucket input may also be combined with Key Filters to limit the number of
&gt; objects processed by the first query phase.
&gt; If you’re using Riak Search, the list of inputs can also reference a search
&gt; query to be used as inputs.
&gt;

Hopefully Secondary Indexes comes with a new map/reduce input type that does
something similar.

- Kev
c: +001 (650) 521-7791


On Tue, Jul 26, 2011 at 8:21 PM, Antonio Rohman Fernandez &lt;
roh...@mahalostudio.com&gt; wrote:

&gt; \*\*
&gt;
&gt; "The problem I see with riak-ql and Antonio's thing is that they're
&gt; invariably going to be slow.
&gt; Javascript Map/Reduce over an entire bucket is just not suitable for inline
&gt; requests."
&gt;
&gt; Yes, of course, i also think that the MapReduce phases should be done in
&gt; the background with some cron jobs or other methods... you don't want to
&gt; execute this kind of queries on your UI web app, but at least the
&gt; development is done in case you need to do so ( of course, using your head
&gt; on how you distribute data on the buckets )... is for example with
&gt; facebook's "News feed"... if we call that MapReduce query everytime the user
&gt; click on the "Home" tab, it will be terrible expensive, so a process in the
&gt; background generating the "News feed" for you and updating it every 5min (
&gt; for example ) will be more ideal... but still, is good to have MapReduce
&gt; options OnDemand in case you want to grab some special data, etc... even the
&gt; transaction will be a bit costly.
&gt;
&gt; Also it depends on how you store your data... if you just have a "Messages"
&gt; bucket to store everybody's messages, will be very hard to query... instead,
&gt; if you atomize it like "Messages\_Rohman", "Messages\_OtherUser", etc... you
&gt; will have less data on each bucket and queries could be faster and the
&gt; MapReduce could be an Option for OnDemand data.
&gt;
&gt; Rohman
&gt;
&gt; On Tue, 26 Jul 2011 20:12:08 -0700, Kev Burns wrote:
&gt;
&gt; sorry i meant to post this to the list
&gt;
&gt; - Kev
&gt; c: +001 (650) 521-7791
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Tue, Jul 26, 2011 at 8:11 PM, Kev Burns  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Francisco - How's performance on riak-ql?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; The problem I see with riak-ql and Antonio's thing is that they're
&gt;&gt; invariably going to be slow.
&gt;&gt; Javascript Map/Reduce over an entire bucket is just not suitable for
&gt;&gt; inline requests.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Take PodCrazy
&gt;&gt; http://podcrazy.net/
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; It's backed entirely by RiakSearch and memcached.
&gt;&gt; That episode listing on the homepage is a map/reduce that calculates
&gt;&gt; popularity based on votes over time.
&gt;&gt; But right now this simple javascript map/reduce over less than a thousand
&gt;&gt; items takes about 2 seconds to run.
&gt;&gt; It totally makes sense as a map/reduce because it's calculating popularity
&gt;&gt; based on several decaying attributes.
&gt;&gt; But it has to happen in a background process.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; The site is powered by this port of Ripple to PHP
&gt;&gt; http://ripple-php.hackyhack.net/test/?test=document
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Right now ripple-php has remained pretty basic and for good reason.
&gt;&gt; I've put off creating something more full-featured until secondary indexes
&gt;&gt; makes it into master.
&gt;&gt; The shape of the native secondary index mechanism will heavily influence
&gt;&gt; the design of any Riak ODM.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Lastly, in my experience Riak Search is not very memory efficient as a
&gt;&gt; non-fulltext index mechanism.
&gt;&gt; Also sort of useless without support for ranges on anything other than
&gt;&gt; keys.
&gt;&gt; You wind up selecting limit 0,999 and doing the slice yourself.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I suppose I see the value of a tool like riak-ql for reporting.
&gt;&gt; And I imagine this sort of tool will continue to be useful to add the sort
&gt;&gt; of features that Secondary Indexes will not support.
&gt;&gt; And I also imagine a tool like this would be faster if implemented in
&gt;&gt; Erlang.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; - Kev
&gt;&gt; c: +001 (650) 521-7791
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Tue, Jul 26, 2011 at 7:35 PM, Antonio Rohman Fernandez &lt;
&gt;&gt; roh...@mahalostudio.com&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; thanks for porting it to Google Docs, even seems the text got a little
&gt;&gt;&gt; compressed in there, too cluttered.
&gt;&gt;&gt; hope it can help somebody.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Rohman
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; On Tue, 26 Jul 2011 19:21:36 -0700, Kev Burns wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Here's a virus-free version of Antonio's slide deck (Google Docs)
&gt;&gt;&gt; https://docs.google.com/present/view?id=dhpxng6q\_51gdj6r9wn
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; - Kev
&gt;&gt;&gt; c: +001 (650) 521-7791
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; On Tue, Jul 26, 2011 at 6:23 PM, Antonio Rohman Fernandez &lt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; roh...@mahalostudio.com&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; for PHP you can take a look at this slides i made, is about "phpCloud
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Framework" a new PHP5 MVC framework i'm building with Riak integration in
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; place : ) is based on CakePHP that borrows heavily on Ruby on Rails.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; You can download the slides on this address ( seems the file is too big
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; for the distribution list as my last mail couldn't be sent ):
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; http://mahalostudio.com/Riak\_phpCloud.pptx
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Rohman
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; [image: line] [image: logo]  \*Antonio
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Rohman Fernandez\*
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; CEO, Founder & Lead Engineer
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; roh...@mahalostudio.com \*Projects\*
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; MaruBatsu.es 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; PupCloud.com 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Wedding Album  [image: line]
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; On Tue, 26 Jul 2011 20:00:27 -0400, Jonathan Langevin wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Looks interesting, but doesn't appear very intuitive (at least, to a
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; PHP dev)\*\*
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;  \*Jonathan Langevin\*
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Systems Administrator \*Loom Inc.\*
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Wilmington, NC: (910) 241-0433 - jlange...@loomlearning.com -
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; www.loomlearning.com - Skype: intel352
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; \*\*
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; On Mon, Jul 25, 2011 at 9:40 AM, francisco treacy &lt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; francisco.tre...@gmail.com&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; It's awesome for ad-hoc querying, at least. An example can better
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; explain.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Consider this:
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; db.add('users').map('query', '.address .street where
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; .weight:expr(x !.expired').run()
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; as opposed to:
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; db.add('users').map(function(v) {
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; v = Riak.mapValuesJson(v)[0];
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; var result = [];
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; if ((v.weight &lt; 180 || v.exempt) && v.acl && v.acl.state === '1101'
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; && !v.expired) {
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; if (v.address) {
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; result.push(v.address.street);
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; }
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; }
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; return result;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; }).run()
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-ql is basically adding some query sugar (where, &&) on top of
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; JSONSelect... which you can try it out here:
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; http://jsonselect.org/#tryit
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 2011/7/25 Mark Phillips :
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; Hey Francisco,
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; I for one would be interested in learning some more specifics on how
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; you're using it. I suspect others might be, too...
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; Mark
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; On Sat, Jul 23, 2011 at 4:40 PM, francisco treacy
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;  wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; Hey all,
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; Just wondering... is anyone using, or have tried out riak-ql?
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; https://github.com/frank06/riak-ql
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; Not because I developed it -- but I'm regularly making use of it and
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; I
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; think it kicks ass. Especially in the repl in combo with riak-js.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; What do you guys think?
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; Francisco
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; ps: really curious/excited about the upcoming Secondary Indices
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; functionality
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt;&gt; [image: line] [image: logo]  \*Antonio
&gt;&gt;&gt; Rohman Fernandez\*
&gt;&gt;&gt; CEO, Founder & Lead Engineer
&gt;&gt;&gt; roh...@mahalostudio.com \*Projects\*
&gt;&gt;&gt; MaruBatsu.es 
&gt;&gt;&gt; PupCloud.com 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Wedding Album  [image: line]
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; --
&gt; [image: line] [image: logo]  \*Antonio Rohman
&gt; Fernandez\*
&gt; CEO, Founder & Lead Engineer
&gt; roh...@mahalostudio.com \*Projects\*
&gt; MaruBatsu.es 
&gt; PupCloud.com 
&gt; Wedding Album  [image: line]
&gt;
&lt;&gt;\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

