---
title: "Re: How to make Riak work faster (writing)"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-11-02T05:20:28-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg09154"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg09153"
author_name: "Sebastian Cohnen"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-11-02T05:20:28-07:00
---


You should hit both servers and not just with a concurrency level of 1.

There are many more factors to consider, but these are highly dependent on your 
actual problem (not just a simple benchmark). Just to name a few: bitcask 
settings 
(http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/tutorials/choosing-a-backend/Bitcask/#Tuning-Bitcask),
 w-quorum, HTTP vs ProtoBuf, ring\_creation\_size, ...

On 02.11.2012, at 13:15, Uruka Dark  wrote:

&gt; I'm hitting just one of them.
&gt; At the beginning I tried to use the default settings (n\_val = 3), then I 
&gt; started to create the bucket with n\_val = 2. I've tested a lot of 
&gt; combinations to w, but I could not see any substantial improvement.
&gt; If you have any suggestion, please, let me know. I can do any test.
&gt; 
&gt; On Fri, Nov 2, 2012 at 9:04 AM, Sebastian Cohnen  
&gt; wrote:
&gt; What level of concurrency are you using in your test setup? Are you hitting 
&gt; both servers with your test? What is your n\_val and w?
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On 02.11.2012, at 03:42, Uruka Dark  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; &gt; Hi,
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; I'm new here and with Riak. If I do something wrong, please, let me know.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; I've made a Riak cluster with two identical machines: Intel core i3 2.3GHz 
&gt; &gt; 4GB RAM 1TB HD. They are connected by a gigabit ethernet network. 
&gt; &gt; Everything is working fine. I'm using a Bitcask backend.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; I've made a PHP script to do a performance test and find out how fast Riak 
&gt; &gt; can be with these settings. What my script is doing is: to store 10000 
&gt; &gt; objects with a 10K long data (string of 10240 x 'A'), and calculating how 
&gt; &gt; many objects it stores per second.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Right now, using Bitcask backend, it can store roughly 68 objects per 
&gt; &gt; second. It seems to be a small number to me, but I don't know too much 
&gt; &gt; about Riak. I've tested the same script on a Couchbase cluster, with the 
&gt; &gt; same settings, and it could store roughly 1000 objects per second. 
&gt; &gt; Obviously, on Couchbase test, the data is not sent to non-volatile media 
&gt; &gt; immediately. Data is kept in memory to acknowledge the reception as fast as 
&gt; &gt; possible, and is sent to non-volatile media in background. I want Riak to 
&gt; &gt; behave the same way to increase the "writing speed", but I don't know how 
&gt; &gt; to do it or if it is possible. May be I'm trying to do something completely 
&gt; &gt; out of the purpose of Riak.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; I've tested Riak with Memory backend too, but it achieved only 72 objects 
&gt; &gt; per second. I expected it to work faster with Memory backend, cause there 
&gt; &gt; is no disk activity involved on it, but the final result is not that high.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Again, I don't know if I'm trying to do something inappropriate. I think 
&gt; &gt; I'm missing something.
&gt; &gt; Is there any way to do it?
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; If I could not make myself clear, please, let me know.
&gt; &gt; Thank you.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; 

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

