---
title: "Re: post installation"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-08-30T06:20:12-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12173"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12171"
author_name: "Jared Morrow"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-08-30T06:20:12-07:00
---


Konstantin,

We don't support 32bit builds any longer. If at all possible, you should
try to switch to a 64bit platform if your plan is to run Riak in
production. If you do that, you can use the Ubuntu 12 package on Ubuntu 13
with no problems. If you are going to stick with 32bit, you might have an
easier time building your own package and then keeping that to pass around
to other machines for install.

The basic way to build your own package follows:

 - You will need Ubuntu's packaging scripts dch and debuild, Usually they
 are found in the devscripts and ubuntu-dev-tools packages. apt-get
 install these.
 - Fetch Riak's source code as you already did, checkout the 1.4.2 tag git
 checkout riak-1.4.2
 - Build the package with make package. This will generate .deb and
 .deb.sha files that will show up in the package/packages subdirectory of
 your source.
 - Use that package to install Riak on your machines.

I hope this helped, let me know if you run into any problems.

-Jared


On Thu, Aug 29, 2013 at 10:43 PM, akonsu  wrote:

&gt; thank you very much. I am building from source because I did not find a
&gt; package for my OS (32 bit Ubuntu 13.04). I see only packages for 12.04 and
&gt; they are marked as AMD64. I also tried installing using apt-get but when I
&gt; added basho repo to my sources and did apt-get update I got some 403 errors
&gt; like this guy:
&gt; http://askubuntu.com/questions/265347/how-to-install-riak-on-ubuntu-12-10
&gt;
&gt; Konstantin
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; 2013/8/30 Jared Morrow 
&gt;
&gt;&gt; A built release from source uses relative paths in the scripts to locate
&gt;&gt; the various erlang start scripts it needs to run. If you are building from
&gt;&gt; a rel instead of using the packages, the best thing to do is to move the
&gt;&gt; entire 'rel/riak' directory somewhere as a unit. So you can move
&gt;&gt; 'rel/riak' to something like /opt/riak then add /opt/riak/bin to your path.
&gt;&gt; It is possible to move the rel/riak/bin, lib, data, etc directories
&gt;&gt; separately, then adjusting the settings found in the
&gt;&gt; rel/riak/etc/app.config.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Is there a particular reason you are building from source and installing
&gt;&gt; versus using the packages?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Good luck,
&gt;&gt; Jared
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Thu, Aug 29, 2013 at 8:23 PM, akonsu  wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Hello, I have managed to successfully build riak from github source.
&gt;&gt;&gt; In my repository I now have rel/ directory. The guide at
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/ops/building/installing/post-install/ 
&gt;&gt;&gt; instructs
&gt;&gt;&gt; to add the bin/directory to the PATH. My question is what files/directories
&gt;&gt;&gt; are actually needed? If I want to move the built release somewhere, what
&gt;&gt;&gt; files do I need to move?
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Thanks!
&gt;&gt;&gt; Konstantin
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

