---
title: "Re: Searching"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-03-07T08:15:34-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15857"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15855"
author_name: "Zeeshan Lakhani"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-03-07T08:15:34-08:00
---


Saw your more recent email as well.

We’re currently working on attempting patch up the issues with 
\_yz\_events:handle\_info and what that crash was causing. Are you seeing "Core 
with name ‘' already exists” in your solr logs? If so, that’s means 
it’s a similar issue, and, again, we’re working on testing patches internally.


Thanks.

Zeeshan Lakhani
programmer | 
software engineer at @basho | 
org. member/founder of @papers\_we\_love | paperswelove.org
twitter =&gt; @zeeshanlakhani

&gt; On Mar 7, 2015, at 11:02 AM, Jason Ryan  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; We have seen crash \_yz\_events yes, none today for example, but there was 
&gt; quite a bit yesterday.
&gt; 
&gt; It's a 5 node cluster - 14GB of RAM in each, solr jvm is set at 8GB on each.
&gt; 
&gt; I've not seen any corrupted data, but we could be looking in the wrong place? 
&gt; Our buckets are set to allow\_mult false and last\_write\_wins true, so we don't 
&gt; expect any siblings.
&gt; 
&gt; We had a health done by yourselves also, the main change, which we have not 
&gt; yet applied is switching AAE from active to passive and setting erlang buffer 
&gt; to 128MB
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; Jason Ryan
&gt; VP Engineering
&gt; 
&gt; Trustev
&gt; Real Time, Online Identity Verification
&gt; 
&gt; email: jason.r...@trustev.com  
&gt; skype: jason\_j\_ryan
&gt; web: www.trustev.com 
&gt; 
&gt; Trustev Ltd, 2100 Cork Airport Business Park, Cork, Ireland. 
&gt; 
&gt; On 7 March 2015 at 15:54, Zeeshan Lakhani  &gt; wrote:
&gt; Hello Jason,
&gt; 
&gt; I initially was thinking that you’re issues were similar to what we’ve found 
&gt; here, https://github.com/basho/yokozuna/issues/442#issuecomment-77233636 
&gt; , but 
&gt; seeing {error, retry\_later} and the 500s seem to place the problems more on 
&gt; the Solr end. Just to make sure, are you seeing `yz\_events` crashes in your 
&gt; logs?
&gt; 
&gt; Can you tell me how much RAM each node has and have you adjusted/increased 
&gt; the search.sol.jmv\_options max heap size at all (more info on issues/factors 
&gt; w/ Solr performance here -&gt; 
&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/ops/advanced/configs/search/#Solr-for-Operators
&gt; 
&gt; )?
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; What kind of issues are you getting in your solr logs? Anything related to 
&gt; bad/corrupted data (which will index into \_yz\_err fields when dealing with 
&gt; failed extractions) or possible sibling explosion (duplicates of the same 
&gt; object with different \_yz\_vtag fields)? 
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks.
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; Zeeshan Lakhani
&gt; programmer | 
&gt; software engineer at @basho | 
&gt; org. member/founder of @papers\_we\_love | paperswelove.org 
&gt; 
&gt; twitter =&gt; @zeeshanlakhani
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On Mar 7, 2015, at 5:43 AM, Jason Ryan &gt; &gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Hi all,
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; We're having real trouble with Riak Search.
&gt;&gt; We are seeing an awful lot of errors, which leads to alot of logging for 
&gt;&gt; solr and the disk IO reaching 95% + which is causing lots of issues.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; - We consistently see errors around Riak trying to create indexes which 
&gt;&gt; already exist - only a restart of each Riak node stops this for a period of 
&gt;&gt; time - indexes are only ever created manually, not by software.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; - We see lots of errors around failing to index objects - details of what 
&gt;&gt; appears in the log are:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 2015-03-07 10:30:26.871 [error] &lt;0.2538.0&gt;@yz\_kv:index:215 failed to index 
&gt;&gt; object 
&gt;&gt; {{&lt;&lt;"Production"&gt;&gt;,&lt;&lt;"Grains.Domain.Case"&gt;&gt;},&lt;&lt;"455203890918dfc6fd3c7da49dd6adb00300000043a46a51"&gt;&gt;}
&gt;&gt; with error {"Failed to index docs",{error,retry\_later}} because 
&gt;&gt; [{yz\_solr,index,3,[{file,"src/yz\_solr.erl"},{line,192}]},{yz\_kv,index,7,[{file,"src/yz\_kv.erl"},{line,267}]},{yz\_kv,index,3,[{file,"src/yz\_kv.erl"},{line,202}]},{riak\_kv\_vnode,actual\_put,6,[{file,"src/riak\_kv\_vnode.erl"},{line,1418}]},{riak\_kv\_vnode,perform\_put,3,[{file,"src/riak\_kv\_vnode.erl"},{line,1406}]},{riak\_kv\_vnode,do\_put,7,[{file,"src/riak\_kv\_vnode.erl"},{line,1201}]},{riak\_kv\_vnode,handle\_command,3,[{file,"src/riak\_kv\_vnode.erl"},{line,486}]},{riak\_core\_vnode,vnode\_command,3,[{file,"src/riak\_core\_vnode.erl"},{line,345}]}]
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; - We are also starting to see 500's being returned for search queries - the 
&gt;&gt; response looks like this:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 500 Internal Server 
&gt;&gt; ErrorInternal Server Error
=====================

The server 
&gt;&gt; encountered an error while processing this request:  

```
{error,
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;     {throw,
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;         {"Failed to search",
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;          "http://localhost:8093/internal_solr/sessions/select 
&gt;&gt; ",
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; {error,retry\_later}},
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; [{yz\_solr,search,3,[{file,"src/yz\_solr.erl"},{line,278}]},
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; {yz\_wm\_search,search,2,[{file,"src/yz\_wm\_search.erl"},{line,129}]},
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; {webmachine\_resource,resource\_call,3,
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; [{file,"src/webmachine\_resource.erl"},{line,186}]},
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; {webmachine\_resource,do,3,
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; [{file,"src/webmachine\_resource.erl"},{line,142}]},
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; {webmachine\_decision\_core,resource\_call,1,
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; [{file,"src/webmachine\_decision\_core.erl"},{line,48}]},
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; {webmachine\_decision\_core,decision,1,
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; [{file,"src/webmachine\_decision\_core.erl"},{line,558}]},
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; {webmachine\_decision\_core,handle\_request,2,
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; [{file,"src/webmachine\_decision\_core.erl"},{line,33}]},
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; {webmachine\_mochiweb,loop,2,
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; \* Connection #0 to host 10.0.5.6 left intact
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; [{file,"src/webmachine\_mochiweb.erl"},{line,74}]}]}}
```


---

mochiweb+webmachine
&gt;&gt; web server


&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Anyone that could point us in the right direction of where to look and 
&gt;&gt; debug, as this is becoming a huge issue for us.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Jason
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; This message is for the named person's use only. If you received this 
&gt;&gt; message in error, please immediately delete it and all copies and notify the 
&gt;&gt; sender. You must not, directly or indirectly, use, disclose, distribute, 
&gt;&gt; print, or copy any part of this message if you are not the intended 
&gt;&gt; recipient. Any views expressed in this message are those of the individual 
&gt;&gt; sender and not Trustev Ltd. Trustev is registered in Ireland No. 516425 and 
&gt;&gt; trades from 2100 Cork Airport Business Park, Cork, Ireland.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com 
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; This message is for the named person's use only. If you received this message 
&gt; in error, please immediately delete it and all copies and notify the sender. 
&gt; You must not, directly or indirectly, use, disclose, distribute, print, or 
&gt; copy any part of this message if you are not the intended recipient. Any 
&gt; views expressed in this message are those of the individual sender and not 
&gt; Trustev Ltd. Trustev is registered in Ireland No. 516425 and trades from 2100 
&gt; Cork Airport Business Park, Cork, Ireland.
&gt; 

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

