---
title: "Re: Announcing riak-scala-client 0.8.0"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-03-19T22:09:14-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10481"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg10465"
author_name: "Mark Phillips"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-03-19T22:09:14-07:00
---


Thanks for the info, Age. It sounds like you're about to have some
fun. :) Keep us posted.

Mark
twitter.com/pharkmillups

On Mon, Mar 18, 2013 at 12:17 PM, Age Mooij  wrote:
&gt; Hi Mark,
&gt;
&gt; I've been testing this on a customer project that is not in production yet so 
&gt; most of the tire-kicking so far has been done in development, unit testing, 
&gt; acceptance testing, and some limited load testing. We're currently working on 
&gt; much heavier load tests that should put some pressure on the client.
&gt;
&gt; The project runs with the eLevelDB backend and has some limited 2i usage so 
&gt; far. No map reduce or link walking yet, which also explains why they are 
&gt; still missing from the feature set.
&gt;
&gt; As for me, stress/load testing and benchmarking are high on the agenda for 
&gt; the near future so hopefully I can publish some numbers soon. I'm very 
&gt; curious about how it compares with Raiku ;)
&gt;
&gt; Age
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Mar 18, 2013, at 16:02, Mark Phillips  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi Age,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks for sending this along. It looks awesome. And nice work on the
&gt;&gt; docs, too. :)
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; This is the first public release but I've been testing it on a large project
&gt;&gt;&gt; since January and it was time to let other people kick the tires and tell me
&gt;&gt;&gt; what I did wrong (or right).
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Any chance you can give any details on how you kicked the tires and
&gt;&gt; how it's being used in production? I would be interested to know what
&gt;&gt; hoops you made it jump through. :)
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks again. Nice work.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Mark
&gt;&gt; twitter.com/pharkmillups
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Sun, Mar 17, 2013 at 5:23 PM, Age Mooij  wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt; Hi
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; After three months of hacking, I'm proud to announce a new Riak Scala client
&gt;&gt;&gt; library based on Akka and Spray and simply called riak-scala-client. It aims
&gt;&gt;&gt; to be easy to use, non-blocking, and fast, in that order.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://riak.scalapenos.com/
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; This is the first public release but I've been testing it on a large project
&gt;&gt;&gt; since January and it was time to let other people kick the tires and tell me
&gt;&gt;&gt; what I did wrong (or right).
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; The client is purely based on the http API and currently it supports the
&gt;&gt;&gt; following Riak features:
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; - Fetch
&gt;&gt;&gt; - Store
&gt;&gt;&gt; - Delete
&gt;&gt;&gt; - Secondary Indexes (2i)
&gt;&gt;&gt; - Fetching exact matches
&gt;&gt;&gt; - Fetching ranges
&gt;&gt;&gt; - Storing with indexes
&gt;&gt;&gt; - Getting/setting bucket properties
&gt;&gt;&gt; - ping
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Other features include:
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; - Completely non-blocking thanks to Scala 2.10 Futures, Akka, and Spray
&gt;&gt;&gt; - Transparent integration with Akka projects through an Akka extension
&gt;&gt;&gt; - An untyped RiakValue class for interacting with raw Riak values and their
&gt;&gt;&gt; associated
&gt;&gt;&gt; meta data (vclock, etag, content type, last modified time, indexes, etc.)
&gt;&gt;&gt; - A typed RiakMeta[T] class for interacting with deserialized values while
&gt;&gt;&gt; retaining
&gt;&gt;&gt; their associated meta data (vclock, etag, content type, last modified
&gt;&gt;&gt; time, indexes, etc.)
&gt;&gt;&gt; - Customizable conflict resolution on all fetches (and stores when
&gt;&gt;&gt; returnbody=true)
&gt;&gt;&gt; - Automatic (de)serialization of Scala (case) classes using type classes
&gt;&gt;&gt; - builtin spray-json (de)serializers
&gt;&gt;&gt; - Automatic indexing of Scala (case) classes using type classes
&gt;&gt;&gt; - Auto-retry of fetches and stores (a standard feature of the underlying
&gt;&gt;&gt; spray-client library)
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; The following Riak (http) API features are still missing and will follow
&gt;&gt;&gt; soon:
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; - Link walking
&gt;&gt;&gt; - Map Reduce
&gt;&gt;&gt; - Listing all keys in a bucket
&gt;&gt;&gt; - Listing all buckets
&gt;&gt;&gt; - Conditional fetch/store semantics (i.e. If-None-Match and If-Match for
&gt;&gt;&gt; ETags and
&gt;&gt;&gt; If-Modified-Since and If-Unmodified-Since for LastModified)
&gt;&gt;&gt; - Node Status
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Check it out at: http://riak.scalapenos.com/
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Cheers,
&gt;&gt;&gt; Age
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

