---
title: "Re: Riak CS reduced redundancy"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-08-22T09:23:11-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12117"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12106"
author_name: "Andrew Stone"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-08-22T09:23:11-07:00
---


Hi Thomas,

Yes you can change the n\_val in the default bucket properties of the riak
cluster. That's how CS determines how many replicas to store. However,
please keep in mind that reducing the replicas can reduce your availability.

-Andrew


On Wed, Aug 21, 2013 at 5:27 AM, Thomas Dunham  wrote:

&gt; Hi all,
&gt; Is it possible to adjust the number of replicas Riak-CS keeps of every
&gt; object (I'd like to only keep two copies)?
&gt;
&gt; I've read the documentation and the default number of replicas seems to be
&gt; three, but there doesn't seem to be any config in Riak-CS to change it. If
&gt; I changed the n\_val in the default bucket properties of the Riak cluster,
&gt; would this have the effect of changing the number of replicas?
&gt;
&gt; Here's the only comment I could find in the docs about how many replicas
&gt; are kept. The language implies it's possible to change the number, but I
&gt; can find no reference to any config settings in the open source or
&gt; enterprise versions:
&gt; In Riak CS, large objects are broken into blocks and streamed to the
&gt; underlying Riak cluster on write, where they are replicated for high
&gt; availability (3 replicas by default). (
&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riakcs/latest/cookbooks/MDC-Overview/).
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; Tom
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

