---
title: "Re: Riak: reliable object deletion"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2017-02-23T06:03:57-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg18018"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg18015"
author_name: "Fred Dushin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2017-02-23T06:03:57-08:00
---


Running a Solr query has no impact on writes -- Riak search queries are direct 
pass throughs to Solr query and don't touch any of the salient Riak systems 
(batching writes to Solr, YZ AAE, etc). I believe the timing of the 
reappearance is a coincidence.

Is it possible the object reappeared via MDC? Do you have record of the 
reappeared object in your other cluster?

Also, just to confirm, when you say the object reappeared -- it re-appeared in 
Riak (and subsequently in Solr), correct? Or are you saying you just find the 
object in Solr (via a search)?

-Fred

&gt; On Feb 23, 2017, at 1:43 AM, al so  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; Here is brief env:
&gt; Riak v 2.0.8 + Solr/ 5 node cluster/ MDC
&gt; 
&gt; Problem:
&gt; Deleted object suddenly resurrected after few days. Solr search 
&gt; query("\*:\*") was executed around the time of reappearance.
&gt; 
&gt; Bucket property for this reappeared object
&gt; {
&gt; "props": {
&gt; "name": "UsaHype",
&gt; "allow\_mult": false,
&gt; "basic\_quorum": false,
&gt; "big\_vclock": 50,
&gt; "chash\_keyfun": {
&gt; "mod": "riak\_core\_util",
&gt; "fun": "chash\_std\_keyfun"
&gt; },
&gt; "dvv\_enabled": true,
&gt; "dw": "quorum",
&gt; "last\_write\_wins": false,
&gt; "linkfun": {
&gt; "mod": "riak\_kv\_wm\_link\_walker",
&gt; "fun": "mapreduce\_linkfun"
&gt; },
&gt; "n\_val": 3,
&gt; "notfound\_ok": true,
&gt; "old\_vclock": 86400,
&gt; "postcommit": [
&gt; {
&gt; "mod": "riak\_repl\_leader",
&gt; "fun": "postcommit"
&gt; },
&gt; {
&gt; "mod": "riak\_repl2\_rt",
&gt; "fun": "postcommit"
&gt; }
&gt; ],
&gt; "pr": 0,
&gt; "precommit": [
&gt; 
&gt; ],
&gt; "pw": 0,
&gt; "r": "quorum",
&gt; "repl": true,
&gt; "rw": "quorum",
&gt; "small\_vclock": 50,
&gt; "w": "quorum",
&gt; "young\_vclock": 20
&gt; }
&gt; }
&gt; 
&gt; delete\_mode is not configured at all. Defaults to 3 sec? Do Tombstone still 
&gt; get created when no delete\_mode at all in the config? Can we query 
&gt; metadata(X-Riak-Deleted) for this reappeared object.
&gt; How would one go about finding root cause. I do know the date when the 
&gt; object was deleted from our app logs. I also seem to know when it reappeared. 
&gt; Seems like a solr search ("\*:\*") in code was executed just before this object 
&gt; reappeared? Look at AAE? Is there a way to find if Solr and Riak backends are 
&gt; out-of-sync (AAE?). 
&gt; 
&gt; I understand tuning other params (allow\_mult = true, ...) will have its own 
&gt; implications.
&gt; 
&gt; In summary:
&gt; How do I find root cause of this issue. 
&gt; How to reliable delete an object.
&gt; 
&gt; -Volk
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

