---
title: "Re: unable to delete certain keys in a bucket"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-09-29T12:26:12-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14955"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14954"
author_name: "Luke Bakken"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-09-29T12:26:12-07:00
---


Hi Hristo,

Please see my comments and questions inline...

&gt; I am using riak version 1.4.10 and it is in a cluster with two hosts. I am
&gt; unable to get rid of keys left over from previous operations using simple
&gt; delete operations on keys.

Could you please try and delete the keys using "curl -vvv -XDELETE
http://...." and let us know the output? The "-vvv" argument will give
us the HTTP response code and will show all headers.

&gt; When I list the keys for a bucket, it shows me
&gt; the old keys, however if I try to retrieve the data associated with a key,
&gt; no data is found.

Could you also paste the output when you retrieve a "deleted" key via
"curl -vvv -XGET http://...." ?

&gt; Is there a way to wipe the keys in the bucket so it starts from a clean
&gt; slate? I don't care about any of the data in riak, but I would rather not
&gt; have to reinstall everything again. What would happen If I just delete
&gt; everything from /var/lib in both hosts?

Don't delete everything from /var/lib - you'll delete the ring and
other important directories. Find the value of data\_root for your data
backends, and then delete the contents of that directory. For
instance, /var/lib/riak/bitcask is the default data\_root for bitcask,
so to delete all the data you'd execute the following on all hosts:

riak stop
rm -rf /var/lib/riak/bitcask/\*
riak start

&gt; I also noticed that recently I did an update, and one of my clusters was
&gt; using leveldb as a backend and another was using bitcask. I updated the
&gt; configs so that both are using bitcask, but I am wondering if there is some
&gt; stale data left over. In one of the clusters in /var/lib there is still a
&gt; leveldb folder. Is it safe to delete it?

Yes if you are sure the data is no longer needed.

--
Luke Bakken
Engineer / CSE
lbak...@basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

