---
title: "Re: Is Riak dead?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2017-07-15T08:57:28-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg18377"
author_name: "DeadZen"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2017-07-15T08:57:28-07:00
---


Lloyd, I too have a great distaste for the cost of those things.

I don't believe that's how developers should be forced to climb the
ladder for knowledge.
Nor do I believe developers should be pushed to create most of the
content for those conferences just to be able to afford attending.

I definitely share your reservations in this regard... I was just not
compelled to state it as such until you brought it up, I have never
and will likely never attend one.

I believe the Academy needs to go along with any effort to recover
this project, and I think the material should be open source as well.



On Sat, Jul 15, 2017 at 11:41 AM, Lloyd R. Prentice
 wrote:
&gt; Hi Steve,
&gt;
&gt; Many thanks for your informative and comforting post. The program you're 
&gt; contemplating sounds sensible and, indeed, promising.
&gt;
&gt; Successful implementation and operation of Riak among enterprise users is in 
&gt; everyone's interest. Erlang Solutions has an excellent track record in 
&gt; support of Erlang. No doubt it would be a fine champion and conservator of 
&gt; open source Riak.
&gt;
&gt; As an army-of-one-developer, with big dreams of an Erlang-based product, I 
&gt; do have one concern.
&gt;
&gt; I'm totally dependent on web-based documentation, tutorials, and the good 
&gt; graces of folks on the mailing lists. As much as I'd like to attend Erlang 
&gt; Solutions conferences and training sessions, they're priced far beyond my 
&gt; budget.
&gt;
&gt; So, I do hope that in your support of Riak you don't forget that there are 
&gt; indie developers with considerable interest in Erlang and Riak who, lacking 
&gt; corporate backing and travel allowances, simply can't afford your enterprise 
&gt; offerings.
&gt;
&gt; Beyond that, you have my vote and support in anyway within my means.
&gt;
&gt; All the best,
&gt;
&gt; Lloyd
&gt; Writersglen Publications
&gt;
&gt; Sent from my iPad
&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Jul 15, 2017, at 4:22 AM, Steve Roberts 
&gt;&gt;  wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi All
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Great to see there is so much enthusiasm for Riak.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I'm from Erlang Solutions. Just to clarify where things are at the moment. 
&gt;&gt; The company Basho Technologies still exists - it hasn't filed for bankruptcy 
&gt;&gt; yet - although we expect it to. There is no grave just yet. We are 
&gt;&gt; creditors and shareholders so we will be notified when/if they do file for 
&gt;&gt; bankruptcy. Assuming it goes into liquidation, the receiver will sell 
&gt;&gt; whatever assets can be liquidated in order to pay the creditors. 
&gt;&gt; Registered names like Riak are things which can be sold... so we will see. 
&gt;&gt; it will probably take a long time before Basho is truly dead and buried.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I've asked our CEO Stuart Whitfield (who happens to be a lawyer) to look at 
&gt;&gt; the legal questions and give a more detailed view.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; As Russell correctly points out existing customers are the priority. In 
&gt;&gt; terms of our thoughts of this situation, our priority is to ensure 
&gt;&gt; enterprise customers have continuity of support since they are the ones most 
&gt;&gt; likely to abandon Riak as it will be a forced migration situation if there 
&gt;&gt; is no support. I expect to launch a paid support service very shortly - 
&gt;&gt; if you're interested, let me know.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; In terms of Riak software, the open source software is safe since it is open 
&gt;&gt; sourced under a friendly licence. The situation with the code for the 
&gt;&gt; enterprise version is not clear yet (highly dependent who/if it is bought in 
&gt;&gt; the fire sale since it is closed source) - although we aim, one way or 
&gt;&gt; another, to have an open source data centre replication layer. Not sure who 
&gt;&gt; is using the other functionality like super clusters in the the enterprise 
&gt;&gt; version - ping me if you are.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; In terms of the products, KV is the priority for support followed by CS/S2. 
&gt;&gt; There aren't many people using TS so it will probably be community support 
&gt;&gt; for the code. I already have some interest from a former developer to move 
&gt;&gt; TS forward - if others want to work on TS I can help co-ordinate in the 
&gt;&gt; interim.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; In terms of evolving the code we're happy to co-ordinate a community and 
&gt;&gt; help steer the future direction for the product. We are looking whether 
&gt;&gt; this should be done through a similar model to the Linux foundation.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; For major feature development, our thoughts are some kind of crowd funding 
&gt;&gt; model for functionality which requires significant development effort - 
&gt;&gt; Basho funded this activity through support and being closed source which 
&gt;&gt; doesnt really work in a completely open source model. Our goal would be to 
&gt;&gt; have just the open source version and no closed source code. Where possible 
&gt;&gt; we wouldnt want customers to have closed source forks.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; We definitely see Riak has a future and want to focus on getting back to 
&gt;&gt; basics of a product which is high performance and does it well - before 
&gt;&gt; adding lots of new functionality. For example ensure there is a clean 
&gt;&gt; demarcation between the data layer and the control layer - this should make 
&gt;&gt; it easier to create new storage types and change the replication layer. 
&gt;&gt; Right now for those of Enterprise, migration back to Open Source is not 
&gt;&gt; straight forward because of this.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; If you are planning to set up groups etc, please let me know and our 
&gt;&gt; marketing group can help you establish the community.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Steve
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; On 15/07/17 08:08, Russell Brown wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; On 15 Jul 2017, at 01:29, Alexander Sicular  wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; I'm not dancing on anyone's grave. Im a big fan of Riak, you know? I'm 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; just pointing out that there is in fact a grave and if there is any hope 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; for a Riak future the project will have to rebrand.
&gt;&gt;&gt; This is the thing we disagree on. But like I said before, neither of us is 
&gt;&gt;&gt; a lawyer, and even if you’re right, it hardly matters. It’s inconsequential.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; I'm sorry, but no company in their right mind would seriously consider 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; using Riak today if they weren't already using Riak. That's today, the 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; story may change tomorrow.
&gt;&gt;&gt; Again, I disagree, but I’m personally not that interested in looking for 
&gt;&gt;&gt; new Riak users at the moment. I think now is the time to shore up the 
&gt;&gt;&gt; existing customers who want to stay with Riak. Chasing non-existent new 
&gt;&gt;&gt; business whilst ignoring the core users is a large part of what did for 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Basho.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; On Fri, Jul 14, 2017 at 5:41 PM, Russell Brown  
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; On 14 Jul 2017, at 23:36, Dave King  wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; You asked what difference the tm made. The tm invokes clause 6. So yes 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; it means moving forward means a new name. That's one of the things to 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; be considered.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Agree, so if we’re sticking to the subject, “Is Riak dead?” the worst 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; case is: “No, but potentially the name could be some time in the future”, 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; right?
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; I asked rhetorically what difference the TM made. I’ve also read the 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; license, and taken legal advice. This was not in any way a surprise.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; - Peace
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Dave
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; On Fri, Jul 14, 2017 at 4:30 PM, Russell Brown  
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; On 14 Jul 2017, at 23:28, Dave King  wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; No, but I can read.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; I read it too. I’m not sure what your point is. A day may come when the 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; name has to change?
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; - Peace
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Dave
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; On Fri, Jul 14, 2017 at 4:27 PM, Russell Brown  
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; On 14 Jul 2017, at 23:26, Dave King  wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 6. Trademarks. This License does not grant permission to use the trade 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; names, trademarks, service marks, or product names of the Licensor, 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; except as required for reasonable and customary use in describing the 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; origin of the Work and reproducing the content of the NOTICE file.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; So At minimum I read that as there would need to be a new product 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; name, and the docs for that product could say formerly known as Riak.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; You are lawyer?
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; - Peace
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Dave
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; On Fri, Jul 14, 2017 at 4:22 PM, Russell Brown  
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; On 14 Jul 2017, at 23:17, Dave King  wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Looks like Basho has the trademark on Riak.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; http://www.trademarkia.com/riak-77954950.html
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; They sure do. And if you look at the Apache2 license you’ll see that 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; it grants use of the name to identify the source.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Look, I’m not a lawyer, and I’m guessing you’re not a lawyer. What 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; difference does the name or trademark make? There are a bunch of 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; active users of Riak, some of whom have made it clear they plan to 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; continue using it. Dance on Basho’s grave all you want, but Riak isn’t 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; dead yet.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; - Peace
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Dave
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; On Fri, Jul 14, 2017 at 4:08 PM, Alexander Sicular 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;  wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; On Jul 14, 2017, at 11:32, Russell Brown  
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; What do you mean “encumbered”? Riak is the name of an Apache2 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; licensed open source database, so it can continue to be used to 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; describe that apache 2 licensed database, please don’t spread FUD.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; You willing to invest time in a project that could be legally 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; encumbered at some point in the future because lawyers? You willing 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; to put that beyond the clown fiesta that is Basho? I don't think so.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; Regards
&gt;&gt; Steve Roberts
&gt;&gt; +44-7887-852-920
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

