---
title: "Re: Bucket creation."
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-02-06T05:34:24-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10013"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg10011"
author_name: "OJ Reeves"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-02-06T05:34:24-08:00
---


I am not aware of the rules in bucket naming, I don't even know if there
are any or if they're documented anywhere. All I can say is that I wouldn't
personally use a forward-slash because it's an obvious conflict with other
areas of the system.

OJ

On Wed, Feb 6, 2013 at 10:44 PM, Kevin Burton wrote:

&gt; The set properties method returns without error on the "illegally named"
&gt; bucket as do all of the put operations. It is just the get properties
&gt; operation that returns an error. If the bucket is indeed improperly named
&gt; then the bug is in the operations that allow the bucket name. Right?
&gt;
&gt; On Feb 5, 2013, at 10:44 PM, Alexander Moore  wrote:
&gt;
&gt; I think the problem you are having here is that you are using an invalid
&gt; bucket name.
&gt;
&gt; "buyseasons/products" would actually refer to a bucket/key pair. Riak
&gt; doesn't have nested buckets.
&gt;
&gt; If you change your bucket name to "buyseasons-products" or
&gt; "buyseasons%20products" it should work.
&gt;
&gt; As for the weird/misleading exception, I'll report it to CorrugatedIron.
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; Alex Moore
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; I still have a question. Based on your input I modified the code slightly
&gt;&gt; as follows:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \*\* \*\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; RiakBucketProperties bucketProperties = new
&gt;&gt; RiakBucketProperties();\*\*\*\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; bucketProperties.SetNVal(4);\*\*\*\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; bucketProperties.SetSearch(true);\*\*\*\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; bucketProperties.SetAllowMultiple(true);\*\*\*\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; bucketProperties.SetWVal("all");\*\*\*\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; bucketProperties.SetRVal("quorum");\*\*\*\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; if (!client.SetBucketProperties("buyseasons/products",
&gt;&gt; bucketProperties).IsSuccess)\*\*\*\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; {\*\*\*\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Console.WriteLine("Setting bucket properties failed");\*\*\*
&gt;&gt; \*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; }\*\*\*\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; RiakResult riakBuckpropertiesResult =
&gt;&gt; client.GetBucketProperties("buyseasons/products", true);\*\*\*\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \*\* \*\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; But I get a NullReferenceException\*\*\*\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \*\* \*\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; at CorrugatedIron.Models.RiakBucketProperties.ReadQuorum(JObject props,
&gt;&gt; String key, Action`1 setter)\*\*\*\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; at CorrugatedIron.Models.RiakBucketProperties..ctor(RiakRestResponse
&gt;&gt; response)\*\*\*\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; at CorrugatedIron.RiakClient.GetBucketProperties(String bucket,
&gt;&gt; Boolean extended)\*\*\*\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; . . . . .\*\*\*\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \*\* \*\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; So the bucket should have been created when I set the properties. But
&gt;&gt; then I tried to read the properties back and I get the exception.\*\*\*\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \*\* \*\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \*From:\* Alexander Sicular [mailto:sicul...@gmail.com]
&gt;&gt; \*Sent:\* Tuesday, February 05, 2013 5:17 PM
&gt;&gt; \*To:\* Kevin Burton
&gt;&gt; \*Cc:\* riak-users
&gt;&gt; \*Subject:\* Re: Bucket creation.\*\*\*\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \*\* \*\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; "buckets" are a virtual concept. you dont need to "create" them. just
&gt;&gt; write a key to any bucket. also by modifying the default bucket parameters,
&gt;&gt; by adding the search hook on a bucket, let's say, you are also "creating"
&gt;&gt; the bucket.\*\*\*\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \*\* \*\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; -alexander\*\*\*\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \*\* \*\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Tue, Feb 5, 2013 at 6:09 PM, Kevin Burton 
&gt;&gt; wrote:\*\*\*\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \*\*\*\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I have filed to find code that would create a bucket. It must be in the
&gt;&gt; past I have just put objects into a bucket and Riak must construct the
&gt;&gt; bucket if it does not exist. Now I would like to create the bucket and set
&gt;&gt; some properties on that bucket. But I don’t know how to create the bucket.
&gt;&gt; \*\*\*\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \*\*\*\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; So I have code like:\*\*\*\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \*\*\*\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; BuildProduct(source, destination);\*\*\*\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; RiakObject value = new RiakObject("products",
&gt;&gt; keySku, JsonConvert.SerializeObject(destination))\*\*\*\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; {\*\*\*\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; ContentType = "application/json"\*\*\*\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; };\*\*\*\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \*\*\*\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; RiakResult response =
&gt;&gt; client.Put(value, new RiakPutOptions { W = 2 });\*\*\*\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \*\*\*\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; But I would like to create the bucket and set properties on the bucket
&gt;&gt; before I put things into the bucket. Like:\*\*\*\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \*\*\*\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; RiakResult riakBuckpropertiesResult =
&gt;&gt; client.GetBucketProperties("products", true);\*\*\*\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; if (riakBuckpropertiesResult.IsSuccess)\*\*\*\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; {\*\*\*\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; riakBuckpropertiesResult.Value
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;


-- 

OJ Reeves
+61 431 952 586
http://buffered.io/
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

