---
title: "Re: RIAK 1.4.6 - Mass key deletion"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-02-18T08:12:18-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13663"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13662"
author_name: "Edgar Veiga"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-02-18T08:12:18-08:00
---


The only/main purpose is to free disk space..

I was a little bit concerned regarding this operation, but now with your
feedback I'm tending to don't do nothing, I can't risk the growing of
space...
Regarding the overhead I think that with a tight throttling system I could
control and avoid overloading the cluster.

Mixed feelings :S



On 18 February 2014 15:45, Matthew Von-Maszewski  wrote:

&gt; Edgar,
&gt;
&gt; The first "concern" I have is that leveldb's delete does not free disk
&gt; space. Others have executed mass delete operations only to discover they
&gt; are now using more disk space instead of less. Here is a discussion of the
&gt; problem:
&gt;
&gt; https://github.com/basho/leveldb/wiki/mv-aggressive-delete
&gt;
&gt; The link also describes Riak's database operation overhead. This is a
&gt; second "concern". You will need to carefully throttle your delete rate or
&gt; the overhead will likely impact your production throughput.
&gt;
&gt; We have new code to help quicken the actual purge of deleted data in Riak
&gt; 2.0. But that release is not quite ready for production usage.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; What do you hope to achieve by the mass delete?
&gt;
&gt; Matthew
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Feb 18, 2014, at 10:29 AM, Edgar Veiga  wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Sorry, forgot that info!
&gt;
&gt; It's leveldb.
&gt;
&gt; Best regards
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On 18 February 2014 15:27, Matthew Von-Maszewski wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Which Riak backend are you using: bitcask, leveldb, multi?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Matthew
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Feb 18, 2014, at 10:17 AM, Edgar Veiga  wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; Hi all!
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; I have a fairly trivial question regarding mass deletion on a riak
&gt;&gt; cluster, but firstly let me give you just some context. My cluster is
&gt;&gt; running with riak 1.4.6 on 6 machines with a ring of 256 nodes and 1Tb ssd
&gt;&gt; disks.
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; I need to execute a massive object deletion on a bucket, I'm talking of
&gt;&gt; ~1 billion keys (The object average size is ~1Kb). I will not retrive the
&gt;&gt; keys from riak because a I have a file with all of them. I'll just start a
&gt;&gt; script that reads them from the file and triggers an HTTP DELETE for each
&gt;&gt; one.
&gt;&gt; &gt; The cluster will continue running on production with a quite high load
&gt;&gt; serving all other applications, while running this deletion.
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; My question is simple, do I need to have any kind of extra concerns
&gt;&gt; regarding this action? Do you advise me on taking special attention to any
&gt;&gt; kind of metrics regarding riak or event the servers where it's running?
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; Best regards!
&gt;&gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

