---
title: "Re: Performance slows down with write heavy use"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-04-15T05:43:15-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14087"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14085"
author_name: "Matthew Von-Maszewski"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-04-15T05:43:15-07:00
---


Jie,

4G ram is small for your ring size and node count. My first recommendation is 
that you reduce your ring size to 32 {ring\_creation\_size, 32}. Then change the 
max\_open\_files setting of eleveldb to 40 {max\_open\_files, 50} and block\_size to 
32768 {sst\_block\_size, 32768}. These three settings should quickly improve 
performance … but require you start over with your cluster.

Active Anti-Entropy has a bug in 1.4.7. You might as well disable it too: 
{anti\_entropy, {off, []}}. The recommendation is that you upgrade to 1.4.8.

Matthew




On Apr 14, 2014, at 10:10 PM, Jie Lu  wrote:

&gt; 
&gt; I also have a problem in performance test of Riak Cluster.
&gt; ~~~~~~~~~~~~
&gt; Riak version: 1.4.7
&gt; OS: openSUSE 11.3
&gt; RAM: 4G
&gt; ring size is 64
&gt; backend: leveldb
&gt; Nodes in cluster: 6 nodes
&gt; 
&gt; ~~~~~~~~~~~~~
&gt; 
&gt; I write a key/value with value is 1K bytes, and 25 concurrent threads on one 
&gt; client nodes. The test result only 20 ops/s performance. 
&gt; 
&gt; Is there any performance benchmark to compare with?
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Tue, Apr 15, 2014 at 6:26 AM, Luke Bakken  wrote:
&gt; Hi Matthew -
&gt; 
&gt; Some suggestions:
&gt; 
&gt; \* Upgrade to Riak 1.4.8
&gt; 
&gt; \* Test with a ring size of 64
&gt; 
&gt; \* Use staggered merge windows in your cluster 
&gt; (http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/ops/advanced/backends/bitcask/)
&gt; 
&gt; \* Since you're on dedicated hardware RAID, use the noop scheduler for your 
&gt; Riak data volumes:
&gt; 
&gt; cat /sys/block/sd\*/queue/scheduler
&gt; noop anticipatory deadline [cfq]
&gt; 
&gt; \* Increase +zdbbl in /etc/riak/vm.args to 96000
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks
&gt; --
&gt; Luke Bakken
&gt; CSE
&gt; lbak...@basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Mon, Apr 14, 2014 at 2:33 PM, Matthew MacClary 
&gt;  wrote:
&gt; I have a persistent issue I am trying to diagnose. In our use of Riak we have 
&gt; multiple data creators writing into a 7 node cluster. The value size is a bit 
&gt; large at around 2MB. The behavior I am seeing is that if I delete all data 
&gt; out of bitcask, then test performance I get fast writes. As I keep doing the 
&gt; same work of writing to the cluster, then the Riak write times will start 
&gt; tailing off and getting really bad.
&gt; 
&gt; Initial write times seen by my application: 0.5 seconds for 100MB worth of 
&gt; values (~200MB/s)
&gt; Subsequent write times: 11 seconds for 100MB worth of values (~9MB/s)
&gt; 
&gt; This slow down can happen over roughly 20-40 minutes of writing or about 
&gt; 200GB worth of key/value pairs written.
&gt; 
&gt; I can reset the cluster to get fast performance again by stopping Riak and 
&gt; deleting the bitcask directories, then starting Riak again. This step is not 
&gt; feasible for production, but during testing at least the write speed goes up 
&gt; by 20x.
&gt; 
&gt; Watching iostat I see that every few seconds the disk io jumps to ~11%. It 
&gt; doesn't seem that highly loaded from my cursory look. Watching top I see that 
&gt; beam.smp runs at around 100 for CPU% or less when heavily loaded. I am not 
&gt; sure how to tell what it is doing though :-)
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks for any suggestions!!
&gt; 
&gt; -Matt
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; ================
&gt; System Description
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; avg value size = 2MB
&gt; Riak version = 1.4.1
&gt; n\_val = 2
&gt; client threads total = 105
&gt; backend = bitcask
&gt; ring\_creation\_size = 128
&gt; node count = 7
&gt; node OS = RHEL 6.2
&gt; server RAM = 128GB
&gt; RAID = RAID0 across 8 SAS drives
&gt; FS = ext4
&gt; FS options = /dev/mapper/vg0-lv0 / ext4 
&gt; rw,noatime,barrier=0,stripe=512,data=ordered 0 0
&gt; bitcask size on one server = 133GB
&gt; AAE = off
&gt; interface = protobuf
&gt; client library = riak java client
&gt; file-max = 65536
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; -- 
&gt; Best Regards.
&gt; Lu Jie
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; -- 
&gt; Best Regards.
&gt; Lu Jie
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

