---
title: "Re: Questions about installing Stanchion for Riak CS"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2016-05-23T09:32:06-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg17398"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg17397"
author_name: "Alex De la rosa"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2016-05-23T09:32:06-07:00
---


Hi Luke,

Ok, understood, what if I don't have a load balancer and the node having
Stanchion crashes? what will happen to the cluster and how to rebuild it?

Thanks,
Alex

On Mon, May 23, 2016 at 8:09 PM, Luke Bakken  wrote:

&gt; Hi Alex,
&gt;
&gt; You should only have one active Stanchion process running in your
&gt; cluster, since its purpose is to ensure consistent, ordered operations
&gt; with regard to users and buckets. You can have a hot-backup if you
&gt; configure a load balancer to proxy requests from the Riak CS
&gt; processes.
&gt; --
&gt; Luke Bakken
&gt; Engineer
&gt; lbak...@basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Sat, May 21, 2016 at 11:41 AM, Alex De la rosa
&gt;  wrote:
&gt; &gt; Hi there,
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; I'm creating a Riak CS cluster and I got some questions about the
&gt; following
&gt; &gt; sentence from the documentation:
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Riak KV and Riak CS must be installed on each node in your cluster.
&gt; &gt; Stanchion, however, needs to be installed on only one node.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Is this statement saying that only 1 node can have Stanchion? Or can it
&gt; be
&gt; &gt; placed in more servers?.... like Riak KV and Riak CS must be in 5 out of
&gt; 5
&gt; &gt; nodes but Stanchion can be in 1 to 5 out of 5 nodes?
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; If is referring that ONLY 1 out of 5 nodes can have Stanchion and the
&gt; other
&gt; &gt; 4 nodes are not allowed to have it installed, what happens if the
&gt; "master"
&gt; &gt; node that has Stanchion crashes?
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Thanks and Best Regards,
&gt; &gt; Alex
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

