---
title: "Re: Corrugated Iron for Riak- WCF Performance Issue"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-10-09T16:30:41-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12578"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12577"
author_name: "OJ Reeves"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-10-09T16:30:41-07:00
---


oops! hit send too early.

4. What is your Riak cluster setup? (eg. how many nodes, configuration
setteings, etc).


On Thu, Oct 10, 2013 at 9:26 AM, OJ Reeves  wrote:

&gt; Pandiarajan,
&gt;
&gt; Can you please answer some questions for me:
&gt;
&gt; 1. What is your application architecture? Are you consuming CI as a
&gt; transport from WCF or are you calling CI from a RESTful server?
&gt; 2. Prior to adding CI, how were you talking to Riak?
&gt; 3. Have you ran basho\_bench against your application before and after
&gt; implementing CI? Can you please share your results?
&gt;
&gt; Thanks.
&gt; OJ
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Thu, Oct 10, 2013 at 8:52 AM, Pandiarajan Subramani &lt;
&gt; psubram...@americanlogistics.com&gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi Everyone,\*\*\*\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I am using Corrugated Iron(CI) for Riak in my
&gt;&gt; WCF REST application. After adding CI, the web services started to send
&gt;&gt; response very slow. All immediate consecutive request to the REST end
&gt;&gt; points get queued up and the responses are delayed more. If anyone has
&gt;&gt; implemented CI in the WCF project. Please advise me how to fix this issue.
&gt;&gt; \*\*\*\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \*\* \*\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks and Regards\*\*\*\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \*Pandiarajan Subramani\*\*\*\*\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; American Logistics Company (ALC) | Office: 866.999.3371 x132 | Mobile:
&gt;&gt; 575.915.2325 | www.AmericanLogistics.com
&gt;&gt; \*\*\*\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \*Coordinating Passenger Transportation\*\*\*\*\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \*Confidentiality Notice: \*This message is intended only for the use of
&gt;&gt; the individual or entity to whom it is addressed. The message may contain
&gt;&gt; confidential or legally privileged information. If you are not the intended
&gt;&gt; recipient you are hereby notified that any disclosure, copying,
&gt;&gt; distribution of this information is strictly prohibited and may be
&gt;&gt; unlawful. If you have received this communication in error, please notify
&gt;&gt; us immediately by responding to this email and then delete it from your
&gt;&gt; system.\*\*\*\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \*\* \*\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt;
&gt; OJ Reeves
&gt; +61 431 952 586
&gt; http://buffered.io/
&gt;



-- 

OJ Reeves
+61 431 952 586
http://buffered.io/
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

