---
title: "Re: Riak Java Protobuf objects"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-01-21T10:49:51-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13434"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13431"
author_name: "Brian Roach"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-01-21T10:49:51-08:00
---


On Tue, Jan 21, 2014 at 10:58 AM, Jon Brisbin  wrote:
&gt; Is the Protobuf interaction still enforced sequentially? e.g. responses only
&gt; come in the order in which the corresponding request was sent and a long
&gt; request will hold up the results of subsequent, but smaller requests?

There has never been a guarantee of this; we don't support pipelining
of requests. Requests are sequential in that you should make a request
then wait for the reply before issuing another request on the same
connection.

&gt; I guess the answer for parallelism is to simply use a pool of connections.

Correct. This is what all the clients have always done.

&gt; How many per client are considered acceptable now that R16 has better
&gt; non-blocking IO support?

The number of connections has always been largely irrelevant; make
1000 of them if you'd like ... just don't try to send 1000 operations
at once if the node can't handle it. The workload on the node is the
(far) greater limiting factor.

- Roach

&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Thanks!
&gt;
&gt; Jon Brisbin
&gt; http://about.me/jonbrisbin | Twitter: @JonBrisbin
&gt;
&gt; On Tuesday, January 21, 2014 at 11:51 AM, Brian Roach wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Jon,
&gt;
&gt; Yes, we released riak\_pb 2.0.0.11 to maven central for the new Riak
&gt; Java Client v2.0 core preview (the all-new official async Riak Java
&gt; client based on Netty[1]) we announced a couple weeks ago - it
&gt; supports all the new Riak 2.0 functionality.
&gt;
&gt; 
&gt; com.basho.riak.protobuf
&gt; riak-pb
&gt; 2.0.0.11
&gt; 
&gt;
&gt; [1] - https://github.com/basho/riak-java-client/tree/master
&gt;
&gt; On Tue, Jan 21, 2014 at 7:22 AM, Jon Brisbin  wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Have the Riak Java Protobuf artifacts been updated to take advantage of Riak
&gt; 2.0 features yet?
&gt;
&gt; I'd like to work some more on getting the Riaktor (Riak async Java client
&gt; based on Reactor [1]) up to Riak 2.0 functionality. Currently I'm using the
&gt; Protobuf artifact for the actual objects I need to do the interactions. I'm
&gt; handling all the network IO through Reactor/Netty and using the simple
&gt; codecs in Reactor.
&gt;
&gt; If not, can I just generate the Java objects I need from the original
&gt; protobuf definitions?
&gt;
&gt; [1] - https://github.com/reactor/reactor
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Thanks!
&gt;
&gt; Jon Brisbin | Reactor Project Lead
&gt; http://about.me/jbrisbin | @j\_brisbin
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

