---
title: "Re: VS Sample help"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-08-20T17:00:38-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12104"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12077"
author_name: "Jeremiah Peschka"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-08-20T17:00:38-07:00
---


Thanks for sending over the asp.net app.config. Could you also send over
the app.config from your riak installation?

&gt;From what you're saying, I'm pretty sure one of two things is happening:

1) Your VMs don't have permission to communicate with wherever your .NET
code is running.
2) Your Riak installation hasn't been set up to listen on those IP
addresses.

CorrugatedIron will happily attempt to talk to a tree stump until it times
out after exhausting the retry attempts + timeout period. Tree stumps don't
have ports ;)



---
Jeremiah Peschka - Founder, Brent Ozar Unlimited
MCITP: SQL Server 2008, MVP
Cloudera Certified Developer for Apache Hadoop


On Mon, Aug 19, 2013 at 8:05 AM,  wrote:

&gt; Hello I just got 2 VMs’ setup and can access via http but cannot get the
&gt; samples to work.
&gt;
&gt; My riak app.config -name is set as riak@192.168.0.71 and .73 respectfully
&gt; and running the Sample proj just takes for ever to ping i.e. a few
&gt; minutes. Eventually it fails at the assert.
&gt;
&gt; My VS app.config in vs is as follows:
&gt;
&gt;  defaultRetryCount="3"&gt;
&gt;
&gt; 
&gt;
&gt; 
&gt;
&gt; 
&gt;
&gt; 
&gt;
&gt; 
&gt;
&gt; Does anyone see why I am failing to connect?
&gt; I ask is there a way to get the ping to fail sooner?
&gt;
&gt; Regards,
&gt; Brad Patterson
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

