---
title: "Re: Riak Java Client"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-04-27T19:41:27-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16078"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16077"
author_name: "Alex Moore"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-04-27T19:41:27-07:00
---


Hi Cos,

We will continue to support and develop the Java client.

With Roach's departure I'll be taking over development for it. I've been
his understudy of sorts for about a year now, although my focus has been
more towards the .NET and PHP clients as of late.

&gt;Consequently, if there's no one on this right now, I'm happy to help out
with current and future issues as my time allows it.
We're happy for any of your help, if you've got any issues / bugs / great
ideas just submit an issue on GitHub
 and
we'll get the ball rolling from there.

Thanks,
Alex


On Mon, Apr 27, 2015 at 7:04 PM, Cosmin Marginean 
wrote:

&gt; One quick question on the Riak Java Client.
&gt;
&gt; Brian Roach seemed to have been the only active contributor to this.
&gt; Recently he mentioned that he's leaving Basho though, so I was wondering if
&gt; he'll be maintaining this moving forward.
&gt;
&gt; Since the Riak Java client is now a fundamental part of our ecosystem, I'm
&gt; very interested in its destiny (as probably many others are)
&gt; Consequently, if there's no one on this right now, I'm happy to help out
&gt; with current and future issues as my time allows it.
&gt;
&gt; Looking forward to hearing from you
&gt;
&gt; Cheers
&gt; Cos
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

