---
title: "Re: deleting a register (Python client)"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-12-19T07:52:26-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15396"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15394"
author_name: "Alex De la rosa"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-12-19T07:52:26-08:00
---


My bad, seems is explained here:

http://riak-python-client.readthedocs.org/en/master/datatypes.html

By the way, what's the difference between these calls?

\*.\*registers['user']\*.\*assign("alex")
\*.\*registers['user']\*.\*set("alex")
\*.\*registers['user']\*.\*set\_value("alex")

Thanks,
Alex

On Fri, Dec 19, 2014 at 4:31 PM, Alex De la rosa 
wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Cool! good to know :) I think is not explained anywhere in the docs.
&gt;
&gt; Thanks!
&gt; Alex
&gt;
&gt; On Fri, Dec 19, 2014 at 3:50 PM, Sean Cribbs  wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Alex,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; This will remove the register from the map:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; del obj.registers['something']
&gt;&gt; obj.store()
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Fri, Dec 19, 2014 at 5:37 AM, Alex De la rosa &gt; &gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Hi there,
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; This is a pretty dumb question but I think I have never recalled doing
&gt;&gt;&gt; it before. Imagine that I have a register called "something" with a value:
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; obj.registers['something'].assign('blah')
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; If later on I want to remove this "something" register from the riak map
&gt;&gt;&gt; object, how to do it? I don't seem to find anywhere in the documentation
&gt;&gt;&gt; how to remove a register.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; I could set up an empty string: obj.registers['something'].assign(''),
&gt;&gt;&gt; as I see that when you fetch a register that doesn't exist it returns an
&gt;&gt;&gt; empty string instead of a None. Is this the only way? Or can we remove it
&gt;&gt;&gt; in some other way?
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt;&gt; Alex
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt;&gt; Sr. Software Engineer
&gt;&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt;&gt; http://basho.com/
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

