---
title: "Re: 404 Error: Object Not Found"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-12-13T08:59:32-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13235"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13054"
author_name: "Hector Castro"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-12-13T08:59:32-08:00
---


Hopefully this one resolves it:

I just setup a single node on Ubuntu 12.04 using Vagrant and attempted
to walk through your steps. In the process, I noticed that you are
issuing the following `curl` command and receiving a 404:

$ curl -v -XPUT http://10.0.2.15:8098/sessions/GA123D971 -H
"content-type: application/json" -d '{"username": "Ari", "token":
"20131122-GA123D971-1210"}'

The path for storing a key named "GA123D971" in a bucket named
"sessions" should be:

$ curl -v -XPUT http://10.0.2.15:8098/buckets/sessions/keys/GA123D971
-H "content-type: application/json" -d '{"username": "Ari", "token":
"20131122-GA123D971-1210"}'

The response for this request should contain a HTTP 204 No Content.

--
Hector


On Wed, Dec 11, 2013 at 6:49 PM, Ari King  wrote:
&gt;&gt; Can you please try running the following command from within the dev
&gt;&gt; directory:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; $ ./dev1/bin/riak ping
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; When I run it locally using your exact configs (downloaded from
&gt;&gt; pastebin), I see:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; $ ./dev1/bin/riak ping
&gt;&gt; Node 'dev1@127.0.0.1\r' not responding to pings.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; (Note the \r)
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; If I start dev2 (using the config populated by Riak's `make devrel
&gt;&gt; DEVNODES=2` command), I get:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; $ ./dev2/bin/riak ping
&gt;&gt; Node 'dev2@127.0.0.1' not responding to pings.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Can you please ensure that all carriage returns are removed from your
&gt;&gt; Riak configuration files?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Hector,
&gt;
&gt; Apologies for the delayed response. I've been traveling internationally over
&gt; the last ten days and in my haste thought I had sent the reply, when I
&gt; actually had only written the response.
&gt;
&gt; I do not have any carriage returns in my actual config file, I believe that
&gt; was added when pasting to pastebin. When I run "./dev1/bin/riak ping" I get
&gt; "pong". However, I'm running riak on ubuntu 12.10 on vagrant. And I have to
&gt; start riak with "sudo" otherwise while it does start up, it does not bind to
&gt; the configured ports.
&gt;
&gt; Thanks.
&gt;
&gt; -Ari

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

