---
title: "Re: Re[5]: Get all keys from an bucket"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2016-02-29T00:06:56-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg17095"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg17092"
author_name: "Magnus Kessler"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2016-02-29T00:06:56-08:00
---


Hi Markus,

You may want to subscribe to the mailing list to avoid that messages from
you are held in the moderation queue. Only subscribed members can post
directly to this list. Also, please always reply to the list address, not
to individual subscribers to keep the discussion public.

Russel just beat me to an answer. Please let us know if this solved your
issue.

Kind Regards,

Magnus




On 26 February 2016 at 17:17, Markus Geck  wrote:

&gt;
&gt; Anyone?
&gt;
&gt; Saturday, January 30, 2016 1:42 AM +03:00 from Markus Geck &lt;
&gt; zerebo...@mail.ru&gt;:
&gt;
&gt; Do you have an example how to stream them? The url I've posted in my
&gt; initial mail explains how to use that index, but not how to stream the
&gt; results. Unfortunately accessing the keys that way overloads the node.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Friday, January 29, 2016 2:06 PM UTC from Russell Brown &lt;
&gt; russell.br...@me.com &gt;:
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; With leveldb you can use the special $bucket index. You can also stream
&gt; the keys, and paginate them, meaning you can get them in smaller lumps,
&gt; hopefully this will appear faster and avoid the timeout you're seeing.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On 29 Jan 2016, at 14:03, Markus Geck  &gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Yes, sorry I forgot to mention that.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Monday, January 25, 2016 10:10 AM UTC from Russell Brown &lt;
&gt; russell.br...@me.com
&gt; &gt;:
&gt;
&gt; Hi Markus,
&gt; Are you using leveldb backend?
&gt;
&gt; Russell
&gt;
&gt; On 22 Jan 2016, at 19:05, Markus Geck  wrote:
&gt;
&gt; &gt; Hello,
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; is there any way to get all keys from an bucket?
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; I've already tried this guide:
&gt; http://www.paperplanes.de/2011/12/13/list-all-of-the-riak-keys.html But
&gt; riak always wents unresponsive with a huge server load.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; and "GET /buckets/bucket/keys?keys=stream" returns an timeout error.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Is there any other way?
&gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;


-- 
Magnus Kessler
Client Services Engineer
Basho Technologies Limited

Registered Office - 8 Lincoln’s Inn Fields London WC2A 3BP Reg 07970431
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

