---
title: "Re: Max/Min Integer CRDTs?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-02-08T15:06:11-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13628"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13627"
author_name: "Russell Brown"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-02-08T15:06:11-08:00
---



On 8 Feb 2014, at 23:00, Jason Campbell  wrote:

&gt; My understanding of what Elias wanted was a counter that simply stored the 
&gt; minimum and maximum values it has ever reached, an optional reset would 
&gt; probably be nice as well. It would be quite helpful when dealing with 
&gt; statistics counters that can decrement.

Ah, in that case, see Sean’s message (yes trivial, yes planned.) Sorry for the 
misunderstanding, I’ve been thinking about bounded counters so that context 
misconstrued the question. Oops.

&gt; 
&gt; Then again, I could be wrong.

&gt; 
&gt; ----- Original Message -----
&gt; From: "Russell Brown" 
&gt; To: "Elias Levy" 
&gt; Cc: "riak-users" 
&gt; Sent: Sunday, 9 February, 2014 9:53:42 AM
&gt; Subject: Re: Max/Min Integer CRDTs?
&gt; 
&gt; Hi Elias,
&gt; 
&gt; This is a great time for you to ask, if you’re asking what I think you’re 
&gt; asking.
&gt; 
&gt; On 8 Feb 2014, at 22:35, Elias Levy  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Does Basho have any plans for implementing a CRDT that maintains the minimum 
&gt;&gt; or maximum value for an integer? It would come in handy in our application 
&gt;&gt; and it would be very simple to implement.
&gt; 
&gt; Do you mean some kind of bounded counter that cannot be incremented beyond 
&gt; (say 1000), or decremented below a certain bound (i.e. non-negative counter?) 
&gt; If so, then the plan is yes, but I’m not sure it is simple. If you have a 
&gt; design for such a thing please share it. We’re working with a team from 
&gt; Universidade Nova de Lisboa as part of the SyncFree project on this, but I’d 
&gt; love to hear your ideas for an implementation. If you want to keep it private 
&gt; feel free to email me off list.
&gt; 
&gt; Cheers
&gt; 
&gt; Russell
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Elias Levy 
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

