---
title: "Re: Riak and host names"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-02-08T12:18:21-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10052"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg09785"
author_name: "Deepak Balasubramanyam"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-02-08T12:18:21-08:00
---


Awesome. I'll make a pull request soon.

Thanks
-Deepak

On Sat, Feb 9, 2013 at 12:08 AM, Mark Phillips  wrote:

&gt; Hi Deepak,
&gt;
&gt; On Fri, Feb 8, 2013 at 3:15 AM, Deepak Balasubramanyam
&gt;  wrote:
&gt; &gt; Hi folks,
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; After trying a couple of configurations, I'd recommend using a VPC on
&gt; EC2. I
&gt; &gt; decided to share my experience with a wider audience and wrote about it
&gt; on a
&gt; &gt; blog post. The post details (among other things) why VPC can make your
&gt; life
&gt; &gt; much easier. Thank you again for all your suggestions.
&gt; &gt;
&gt;
&gt; Nice. Thanks for taking the time to write the post.
&gt;
&gt; &gt; Is there a Riak wiki that I can contribute this information to ? It
&gt; would be
&gt; &gt; easier for users to choose between deployment solutions if they know what
&gt; &gt; options are available.
&gt; &gt;
&gt;
&gt; Absolutely. All our docs are on GitHub [0] and we love (cherish)
&gt; contributions. You'll probably want to add it to the Performance
&gt; Tuning for AWS section [1], and at the very least we should have a
&gt; link to the blog post.
&gt;
&gt; Thanks again.
&gt;
&gt; Mark
&gt; twitter.com/pharkmillups
&gt; A Riak Conference in NYC! -&gt; ricon.io/east.html
&gt;
&gt; [0] https://github.com/basho/basho\_docs
&gt; [1] http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/cookbooks/Performance-Tuning-AWS/
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; &gt; Thanks
&gt; &gt; -Deepak
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; On Sat, Jan 12, 2013 at 1:02 PM, Deepak Balasubramanyam
&gt; &gt;  wrote:
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; Thanks for all the suggestions. I will take some time to review and try
&gt; &gt;&gt; them out. I'll get back to this thread when I do.
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; -Deepak
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; On Thu, Jan 10, 2013 at 3:04 PM, Richard Shaw 
&gt; wrote:
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; Hi Matt,
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; For stopping and starting rather than rebooting, you need to use
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; elastic IPs inside of Amazon's virtual private cloud[1] which allows
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; for persistent static private addresses.
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; [1]http://aws.amazon.com/vpc/
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; Regards
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; Richard
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; On Thu, Jan 10, 2013 at 6:09 AM, Matt Black  &gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; wrote:
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; A quick update on this subject.
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; Using an Elastic IP won't help with AWS since that only binds to the
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; public
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; interface - not the internal private one. The hostname command still
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; returns
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; the same internal IP address as before, which is what's seen by Riak.
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; In AWS an internal IP address will actually persist across reboots.
&gt; It
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; does
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; not persist across shutdown and startup.
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

