---
title: "Re: Riak 2.0.0 RC1"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-07-21T14:57:24-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14522"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14519"
author_name: "Mark S Phillips"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-07-21T14:57:24-07:00
---


Truly awesome work. Congratulations to you and the team, Jared.

Mark

On Mon, Jul 21, 2014 at 5:34 PM, Jared Morrow  wrote:
&gt; Riak-Users,
&gt;
&gt; Everyone at Basho is extremely happy to announce the public availability of
&gt; Riak 2.0.0 RC. As a release candidate, we do not recommend using it in
&gt; production, but it should be considered feature and API complete for Riak
&gt; 2.0 final. We reserve the right to make changes for any data-loss or severe
&gt; performance issues found post-RC, but these will not affect the API.
&gt;
&gt; This is our most ambitious release, with major new features throughout the
&gt; product. With that in mind, please take plenty of time to read through the
&gt; Release Notes. There are some important considerations regarding upgrades,
&gt; known issues, and packaging. The Release Notes are still a work-in-progress
&gt; and will be continually updated as we march towards 2.0 final. We have made
&gt; a lot of progress on our docs site for 2.0, but still have work to do before
&gt; final release. We appreciate your patience.
&gt;
&gt; Release Notes: https://github.com/basho/riak/blob/2.0/RELEASE-NOTES.md
&gt;
&gt; Downloads: http://docs.basho.com/riak/2.0.0/downloads/
&gt; Note: There will be minor tweaks to the download site to show the labels for
&gt; SuSE Enterprise Linux and Ubuntu 14.04 packages
&gt;
&gt; APT/YUM Repos (see release-notes re: this change):
&gt; https://packagecloud.io/basho/riak/install Note: If you are downloading the
&gt; files directly, use our docs site. For apt/yum repo install, use
&gt; packagecloud.
&gt;
&gt; Thanks to everyone in our community,
&gt; -Team Basho
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;



-- 
Mark

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

