---
title: "Re: Default values vs non-existing keys for CRDTs"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-08-20T00:32:43-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16436"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16434"
author_name: "Russell Brown"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-08-20T00:32:43-07:00
---


It’s a tricky one Timur. CRDTs are based on Join Semi-Lattices, and they have 
the concept of a bottom value. That is what you are seeing. Implicitly all keys 
exist at the bottom value until you operate on them. Since you cannot do a 
compare-and-set operation with a counter anyway (that is you can’t “put counter 
with value 0” at that key), why do you need to distinguish between 0 as bottom 
and 0 as value?

On 20 Aug 2015, at 01:59, Timur Fayruzov  wrote:

&gt; Hello,
&gt; 
&gt; It seems that Riak Datatype API does not allow to distinguish between 
&gt; non-existing keys and default values. For example, if I query for 
&gt; non-existing key as follows:
&gt; 
&gt; val fetchOp = new FetchCounter.Builder(key).build()
&gt; val c = client.execute(fetchOp).getDatatype
&gt; 
&gt; I'll get a counter that holds 0. Now, if I put counter with value 0 at this 
&gt; key and run the query, I get the same result. Is there any way to distinguish 
&gt; between these two different states?
&gt; 
&gt; Note: when working with sets there is a context that I can check. If I fetch 
&gt; a set and the context is null, it means that the set does not exist under 
&gt; this key. This trick does not work for counters though, as they do not 
&gt; maintain context. Is it a valid trick to use though?
&gt; 
&gt; I posted this to StackOverflow a while ago, but no luck: 
&gt; http://stackoverflow.com/questions/31845164/riak-dataypes-default-values-vs-non-existing-keys
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; 
&gt; Timur
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

