---
title: "Re: Riak Search VS other query systems"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-08-21T10:04:27-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14775"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14774"
author_name: "Sean Cribbs"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-08-21T10:04:27-07:00
---


We have some prototypes for how to expand Pipe's capabilities thanks
to Chris Meiklejohn. We have not exposed it directly and I honestly
think it may be the fundamentally wrong level of abstraction to
present to users. It could be a way to implement higher-level
query/processing features, but that has not panned out and is low on
our priorities at this time.

On Thu, Aug 21, 2014 at 11:55 AM, Alexander Sicular  wrote:
&gt; Re. Riak pipes. What's the latest regarding accessing the pipe framework? 
&gt; Haven't heard toooo much about it lately, admittedly haven't been listening 
&gt; toooo hard either. The thought would be to do "storm"ish stream processing in 
&gt; situ.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; @siculars
&gt; http://siculars.posthaven.com
&gt;
&gt; Sent from my iRotaryPhone
&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Aug 20, 2014, at 22:28, Sargun Dhillon  wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I second John's opinions. Generally, I would have have one key which
&gt;&gt; is the secondary index, being an observe-remove OR-Set (or a relevant
&gt;&gt; type for your application, be a register, g-set, or a plain old
&gt;&gt; OR-set) pointing to back to the keys. Unfortunately, this mechanism
&gt;&gt; can become quite unwieldy in when you have a term with a high
&gt;&gt; cardinality.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Now, moving onto the Twitter use case, you care a lot about the speed.
&gt;&gt; With this strategy, if you're doing this from a client where you (1)
&gt;&gt; read the 2i OR-set, and then (2) read the keys, that can be expensive
&gt;&gt; as you have to read the entire 2i value back to the Riak client before
&gt;&gt; reading any of the keys. An example, the hashtag #beiber, would have
&gt;&gt; high cardinality would result in a super large value, and reading that
&gt;&gt; back over the network would be less than awesome. Also, having to pass
&gt;&gt; this value around disterl would be poor. Fortunately, the folks at
&gt;&gt; Basho have invented riak\_pipe. Riak\_pipe is a method to allow running
&gt;&gt; the read locally on the node the 2i lives on, and then streaming reads
&gt;&gt; for all of those keys to the nodes that they live on, and then all
&gt;&gt; back to the reader. It's actually the framework that Riak MR uses
&gt;&gt; under the hood.
&gt;&gt; Talk: https://vimeo.com/53910999 (there might be newer ones as well)
&gt;&gt; Docs: https://github.com/basho/riak\_pipe
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Also, to deal with high-cardinality values, there are a variety of
&gt;&gt; work arounds, such as sharding the secondary index to some known set
&gt;&gt; of keys, and doing a read across these list of keys. Also, you can
&gt;&gt; postfix a nonce to the 2i-key, and ensure that they all end up on one
&gt;&gt; node (custom hashing function), or a subset of nodes, and utilize
&gt;&gt; leveldb's key iteration over a range to handle this.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; The general patterns I like for 2i atop Riak is to specialize Peter
&gt;&gt; Bailis, from UC Berkeley's work for RAMPs. If you build the framework
&gt;&gt; for this, it'll be all sorts of useful in the future. One warning is
&gt;&gt; that there is no easy way to garbage collect in Riak today.
&gt;&gt; Paper: http://www.bailis.org/papers/ramp-sigmod2014.pdf
&gt;&gt; Talk: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=\_rAdJkAbGls
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; None of these methods gracefully handle range queries. You can do
&gt;&gt; clever things with your 2i to handle this, but it the Twitter use case
&gt;&gt; wouldn't need ranges.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; On Wed, Aug 20, 2014 at 12:28 PM, John Daily  wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt; I don't have benchmarks to discuss query performance for different tools at
&gt;&gt;&gt; different sizes, but I'd like to point out that the ultimate search tool for
&gt;&gt;&gt; Riak is to not search at all.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Riak Search, 2i, MapReduce are all capable tools, but they don't scale
&gt;&gt;&gt; nearly as well as straight key/value requests, and it is often possible to
&gt;&gt;&gt; model your data around the latter.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; I covered this in https://basho.com/riak-development-anti-patterns/ and the
&gt;&gt;&gt; next edition of Eric Redmond's Little Riak Book (http://littleriakbook.com)
&gt;&gt;&gt; will have more discussion on the topic, but if at all possible, create your
&gt;&gt;&gt; query results as reports as the data is ingested, instead of attempting to
&gt;&gt;&gt; find it all later.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; -John
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; On Wed, Aug 20, 2014 at 3:21 PM, Alex De la rosa 
&gt;&gt;&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Any thoughts about this?
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; One thing it worries me about Riak Search is that if one index has several
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; millions of object to search for maybe it becomes slow? 2i might be faster
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; then?
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Thanks!
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Alex
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; On Tue, Aug 19, 2014 at 8:47 AM, Alex De la rosa 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Hi there,
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; I had been seeing lately Riak Search as an ultimate way to query Riak...
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; and it seems recommended to use over MapReduce and even 2i... said so...
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; should we try to always use Riak Search over the other systems?
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Is there any situation in which MapReduce could be a better approach than
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Riak Search?
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Same goes for 2i... I believe 2i is an optimal approach if you just want
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; keys and know very well what are you looking for, but out of that, should
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Riak Search try to replace all 2i uses?
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Practical example: If you are twitter and want to get twits for the
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; hashtag #Riak, what would be the best approach? 2i? Riak Search? 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; MapReduce?
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Thanks!
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Alex
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com



-- 
Sean Cribbs 
Software Engineer
Basho Technologies, Inc.
http://basho.com/

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

