---
title: "Re: Can't set long node name. Ubuntu 14.04"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-10-29T07:33:12-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15083"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15082"
author_name: "Luke Bakken"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-10-29T07:33:12-07:00
---


Hi,

Please remove the contents of the ring directory before trying to
start this node:

rm -rf /var/lib/riak/ring/\*

As a note, if you're installing Riak from apt-get, you do not need to
also install Erlang as Riak ships with the correct version of Erlang
for its own use. I recommend removing the system-wide Erlang as well.

Please let me know if this addresses your issue.
--
Luke Bakken
Engineer / CSE
lbak...@basho.com


On Wed, Oct 29, 2014 at 12:20 AM, Ebbinge  wrote:
&gt; Hi, I just finished setting up the riak installation on a Ubuntu 14.04 64 bit
&gt; Virtual Machine (VMWare Fusion for Mac OSX). After installing all the
&gt; dependencies, Erlang and all the things needed, the riak.conf file can be
&gt; found on /etc/riak. That file can be opened and edited using diakonos which
&gt; allows to edit as root the file from terminal. I changed the riak node name
&gt; from nodename = riak@127.0.0.1 to nodename = riak@198.162.0.41 which is my
&gt; static IP address. As well, I changed the IP for the HTTP internal listener,
&gt; HTTPs internal listener, and for the buffer protocol as well. When all is
&gt; saved, I proceed to go sudo on terminal, riak start... And then, it doesn't,
&gt; checking the riak console it says the following "Can't set long node name".
&gt; I don't know what else to do, I've tried everything, and as for this time is
&gt; the cleanest installation I have accomplished :(
&gt;
&gt; PD: Installation was trough apt-get install riak, and riak 2.0.0 version was
&gt; installed.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; View this message in context: 
&gt; http://riak-users.197444.n3.nabble.com/Can-t-set-long-node-name-Ubuntu-14-04-tp4031989.html
&gt; Sent from the Riak Users mailing list archive at Nabble.com.
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

