---
title: "Re: Trouble with Riak Search JSON Extractor"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-03-23T09:16:12-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15915"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15914"
author_name: "Zeeshan Lakhani"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-03-23T09:16:12-07:00
---


Hey Matt, 

Remember, with the reload, it’s only new objects in \*new\* fields that will take 
the updates. Depending on how big your dataset is, the quick fix may be to 
upload the \*updated\* schema under a new name and tie the index to that. The K/V 
pairs should then work correctly when PUT.

Zeeshan Lakhani
programmer | 
software engineer at @basho | 
org. member/founder of @papers\_we\_love | paperswelove.org
twitter =&gt; @zeeshanlakhani

&gt; On Mar 23, 2015, at 12:07 PM, Matt Brooks  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; Zeeshan, 
&gt; 
&gt; Is there a way to reload the index manually? I tried running 
&gt; "rp(yz\_index:reload(&lt;&lt;"index\_name"&gt;&gt;))." on each node as suggested on a 
&gt; GitHub issue, and though I got an "ok" response back listing each nodes in 
&gt; the cluster, I still could not query using the updated schema. I even deleted 
&gt; all of my K/V pairs and re-added them with changed keys. 
&gt; 
&gt; Thank you, 
&gt; Matt.
&gt; 
&gt; On Sun, Mar 22, 2015 at 10:21 PM Matt Brooks  &gt; wrote:
&gt; I see. I'll be looking forward to the future release! Thank you, Zeeshan.
&gt; 
&gt; Matt.
&gt; 
&gt; On Sun, Mar 22, 2015 at 9:57 PM Zeeshan Lakhani  &gt; wrote:
&gt; Hey Matt,
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks for clarifying the situation. Yes, I’m working on auto-reloading and 
&gt; re-syncing data along with changes to schemas; it’ll be in a future release. 
&gt; Currently, you can add fields to the schema, for example, for new sets of 
&gt; data, and reload the index if you `riak attach` into one of the running nodes 
&gt; and reload the index across the cluster (based on 
&gt; https://github.com/basho/yokozuna/pull/260 
&gt; ), e.g. 
&gt; https://github.com/basho/yokozuna/issues/130#issuecomment-43802826 
&gt; .
&gt; 
&gt; Zeeshan Lakhani
&gt; programmer | 
&gt; software engineer at @basho | 
&gt; org. member/founder of @papers\_we\_love | paperswelove.org 
&gt; 
&gt; twitter =&gt; @zeeshanlakhani
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On Mar 22, 2015, at 9:37 PM, Matt Brooks &gt; &gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Just discovered this on GitHub https://github.com/basho/yokozuna/issues/130 
&gt;&gt; . Looks like auto-reloading is 
&gt;&gt; a work in progress.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On Sun, Mar 22, 2015 at 9:24 PM Matt Brooks &gt; &gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt; Not getting any errors... but I did notice something interesting after 
&gt;&gt; deleting the nodes on my system and then reconfiguring them. 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; If the first time I set up a schema I add the multivalued field in question, 
&gt;&gt; everything works. If I then change the schema and then update it over HTTP, 
&gt;&gt; the changes do not take affect. 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; For example, when I reconfigured the nodes on my system I added kept the 
&gt;&gt; multivalued "groups" field I mentioned above. I then added some users and 
&gt;&gt; was able to successfully retrieve them using q=groups:\* or something more 
&gt;&gt; specific. I then changed the schema from "groups" to "groups.id 
&gt;&gt; " and PUT it on the server successfully (a subsequent GET 
&gt;&gt; returned the new schema). I also updated the users so that the "groups" 
&gt;&gt; array was changed to an array of JSON objects, each with an "id" field that 
&gt;&gt; would match the "groups.id " field in the schema. I then 
&gt;&gt; tried to query the users using q=groups.id:\*. This failed. 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Do changed to the schema not cause the solr indexes to update? 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; PS: I dug around in $RIAK/data/yz/user/conf and noticed a user.xml file. The 
&gt;&gt; file held the ORIGINAL schema, not the updated one.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On Sun, Mar 22, 2015 at 6:45 PM Zeeshan Lakhani &gt; &gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt; Hello Matt,
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Are you receiving any indexing errors in your logs (check the Solr logs as 
&gt;&gt; well)? To be sure, I just wrote a test (using our erlang pb api, 
&gt;&gt; https://github.com/basho/yokozuna/pull/474/files#diff-5d0015658ff90b94cb1a00329ffafe00R251
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; )
&gt;&gt; using a custom schema, and I didn’t run into any troubles; I also checked 
&gt;&gt; via the http api. If you have the required \_yz\* fields, you should get those 
&gt;&gt; back with the document. If you want the groups items themselves, you’d have 
&gt;&gt; to make `stored` true.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Zeeshan Lakhani
&gt;&gt; programmer | 
&gt;&gt; software engineer at @basho | 
&gt;&gt; org. member/founder of @papers\_we\_love | paperswelove.org 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; twitter =&gt; @zeeshanlakhani
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; On Mar 22, 2015, at 4:13 PM, Matt Brooks &gt;&gt; &gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Hello,
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; I have a quick question about a search schema that would index an array of 
&gt;&gt;&gt; strings in a JSON object. I am storing user data in JSON that looks 
&gt;&gt;&gt; something like this:
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; {
&gt;&gt;&gt; "name" : "John Smith",
&gt;&gt;&gt; "email" : "jsm...@gmail.com ",
&gt;&gt;&gt; "groups" : [
&gt;&gt;&gt; "3304cf79",
&gt;&gt;&gt; "abe155cf"
&gt;&gt;&gt; ]
&gt;&gt;&gt; }
&gt;&gt;&gt; The custom schema I use for users includes this field entry: 
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; multiValued="true"/&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; I also have the following field type entry: 
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; I assumed that these entries would allow me to search for users using a 
&gt;&gt;&gt; query like: 
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; curl $RIAK/search/query/user?wt=json&q=groups:3304cf79
&gt;&gt;&gt; But no docs are returned. I'm almost certain I have an issue with my 
&gt;&gt;&gt; schema. How can I query users by string entries in the "groups" array?
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Thank you, 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Matt.
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com 
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com 
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt; 

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

