---
title: "Re: Riak Search and custom Solr components"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2016-05-31T12:35:50-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg17437"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg17436"
author_name: "Steve Garon"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2016-05-31T12:35:50-07:00
---


Thanks Luke,

I knew you guys were working on this. And the solr reload is just amazing.
I in fact used it today!


Steve

On 31 May 2016 at 13:08, Luke Bakken  wrote:

&gt; Hi Steve and Guillaume -
&gt;
&gt; If you subscribe to this GitHub issue you can provide input and follow
&gt; progress on improving access to solrconfig.xml:
&gt; https://github.com/basho/yokozuna/issues/537
&gt;
&gt; You might be able to restart a Solr core via the HTTP /solr endpoint -
&gt; that may be easier than restarting all of Riak.
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Luke Bakken
&gt; Engineer
&gt; lbak...@basho.com
&gt;
&gt; On Tue, May 31, 2016 at 8:54 AM, Steve Garon 
&gt; wrote:
&gt; &gt; Hey Guillaume,
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; We had to alter the solrconfig.xml in our deployment because the default
&gt; &gt; solrconfig.xml does not give good search throughput with a large amount
&gt; of
&gt; &gt; documents updating often. I've opened a ticket at basho to get the
&gt; &gt; solrconfig.xml save into the buckets settings that way they would be the
&gt; &gt; same across the cluster. I'm not sure when and if they'll have it in. I
&gt; &gt; guess the more ppl that ask for this, the sooner we'll get it.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; In the meantime, what we did is that during our riak node installation
&gt; &gt; procedure, we create the index using curl then we override the
&gt; &gt; solrconfig.xml and then restart riak which in turn restarts solr. From
&gt; then,
&gt; &gt; the solrconfig.xml should remain intact. There is one more thing though.
&gt; &gt; Sometimes, for unknown reasons, riak decides to recreate the
&gt; solrconfig.xml.
&gt; &gt; So you might wanna have a script that runs on the node to validate the
&gt; &gt; solrconfig.xml has not changed and to fix it automatically if it does.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; I know this is not ideal, solrconfig.xml really needs to be saved in
&gt; bucket
&gt; &gt; settings like the schema.xml. Lets just hope the Basho works on fixing
&gt; this
&gt; &gt; ASAP because for big deployments this is kind of crutial.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Steve
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; On 30 May 2016 at 13:18, Guillaume Boddaert
&gt; &gt;  wrote:
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; Please allow me to bump this previous message that was sent late last
&gt; &gt;&gt; friday and that didn't attract much attention due to a well deserved
&gt; &gt;&gt; week-end.
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; On 27/05/2016 19:14, Guillaume Boddaert wrote:
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; Hi there,
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; I'm currently testing custom Component in my Riak Search system. As I
&gt; need
&gt; &gt;&gt; a suggestion mechanism from the Solr index, I implemented the Suggester
&gt; &gt;&gt; component (https://wiki.apache.org/solr/Suggester).
&gt; &gt;&gt; It seems to work correctly, yet I have some question regarding the usage
&gt; &gt;&gt; of custom Solr configuration inside of Riak. The only caveat is that
&gt; Riak
&gt; &gt;&gt; commits too often and that the suggestion index must be build manually
&gt; and
&gt; &gt;&gt; not on commit. That's fine for me, i'll cron that once per day.
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; First of all, how do stop/start/reload the solr instance without
&gt; &gt;&gt; disturbing the Riak core ? For the time being I'm stuck with service
&gt; &gt;&gt; start/stop. How can I reload my solr cores configuration without
&gt; stopping
&gt; &gt;&gt; riak ?
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; Secondly, is that a good pattern to start tweaking defaults from my solr
&gt; &gt;&gt; cores (solrconfig.xml) ? Should I stop that right now and consider to
&gt; use a
&gt; &gt;&gt; distinct Solr instance if I require those modifications ? Or should I
&gt; &gt;&gt; consider safe to alter cache/performance settings as well for Solr to
&gt; match
&gt; &gt;&gt; my needs ? Can I play with other solr files such as stopwords and stuff
&gt; like
&gt; &gt;&gt; that ?
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; Finally, is there a proper way to alter default solrconfig.xml ? It is
&gt; &gt;&gt; auto-generated at index creation by Riak, yet that's a BIG and complex
&gt; file
&gt; &gt;&gt; that may evolve between Riak releases. I'm creating indexes
&gt; programatically
&gt; &gt;&gt; sending my index through Riak interface (
&gt; RiakClient.create\_search\_index in
&gt; &gt;&gt; Riak Python lib), but if I start to alter configuration I guess I need
&gt; more
&gt; &gt;&gt; than that.
&gt; &gt;&gt; How do you guys would handle this ?
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; Thanks,
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; Guillaume
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

