---
title: "Re: Thank You, Riak Community"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-01-24T11:26:55-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13481"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13478"
author_name: "Alexander Sicular"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-01-24T11:26:55-08:00
---


One might say "sorry to see you go" but I think we all know you'll never really 
leave. And that's the only way I'll have it. Thanks for making this a great 
community. Mazal Tov!

-Alexander 

@siculars
http://siculars.posthaven.com

Sent from my iRotaryPhone

&gt; On Jan 24, 2014, at 13:46, Mark S Phillips  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; Hi All,
&gt; 
&gt; For anyone keeping score at home, "m...@basho.com" has managed to spam
&gt; this list with exactly 710 messages [1] since March 31, 2010 [2].
&gt; This, the 711th, is coming from my personal address
&gt; (msphilllena...@gmail.com) as today is my last day at Basho. This
&gt; message is to say thank you.
&gt; 
&gt; I've been at Basho for the better part of six years, with the last
&gt; four being dedicated to the creation and proliferation of the Riak
&gt; community. This roughly lines up with when Riak was open-sourced
&gt; (which, for any historians out there, was 1,631 days ago [3] as of
&gt; this writing). I officially started in February of 2010 as Community
&gt; Manager. About two years after that, thanks in large part to our
&gt; community and customers validating the power of Riak through
&gt; production usage, I was given the opportunity to build a team. That
&gt; team now stands at six, with Tom, Hector, Seth, Michelle, John, and
&gt; Joel all being far more capable than yours truly.
&gt; 
&gt; The Community Team, alongside all of Basho, have big plans for 2014.
&gt; Better docs, better meetups, better blog posts, better swag, better
&gt; RICONs, better code, and better products.
&gt; 
&gt; The future for Riak is brighter than ever. 2.0 is on the cusp of being
&gt; official (patience, patience), and the features and fixes in that
&gt; release will put Riak into another category of database all together.
&gt; With Yokozuna, CRDTs, Strong Consistency, Security, and Cuttlefish,
&gt; (each of which could be their own major-release leading feature), I
&gt; truly believe there's no better database out there for companies
&gt; building scalable, real-time systems that can't go down. If you have
&gt; one use case for Riak 1.4.x, you'll have another three or four thanks
&gt; to the additions in 2.0. (And if you throw CS into the mix, almost all
&gt; your problems are solved...)
&gt; 
&gt; The Riak Community was largely my introduction to open source
&gt; software. It was a never-ending adventure, and I was thankful and
&gt; honored every day to be a part of it. And even though I'm moving on
&gt; from Basho to try something new, I'll still be yelling about Riak and
&gt; Riak CS every chance I get. You won't be getting rid of me that
&gt; easily. :)
&gt; 
&gt; (Also, for anyone interested, today's Riak Community Hangout will
&gt; feature John Daily, Hector Castro, Andy Gross, and myself taking a
&gt; look at the last six years of Riak and Basho. We'll be live at around
&gt; 11 AM Pacific - about 14 minutes from now - on Basho's YouTube page
&gt; [4].)
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks for everything. See you all soon.
&gt; 
&gt; Mark
&gt; twitter.com/pharkmillups
&gt; 413.335.2332
&gt; 
&gt; [1] http://riak.markmail.org/search/?q=
&gt; [2] 
&gt; http://riak.markmail.org/search/?q=#query:from%3A%22Mark%20Phillips%22%20date%3A201003%20+page:1+mid:2au3o6gk7qodaurz+state:results
&gt; [3] https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=748079
&gt; [4] http://www.youtube.com/bashotechnologies
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

