---
title: "[ANN] RICON West 2013 - October 29-30 in San Francisco"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-05-23T15:12:32-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11160"
author_name: "Mark Phillips"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-05-23T15:12:32-07:00
---


On behalf of Basho, I'm ecstatic to announce that RICON West 2013 has
been scheduled and tickets are now available for purchase. Here are
the details:

\* Date: October 29-30
\* Location: St. Regis Hotel; San Francisco, CA.

The official site is here: ricon.io/west.html
The Lanyrd page is here: lanyrd.com/2013/riconwest

Like we've done with past RICONs, the format will be two days, with
two action-packed tracks each day. You can expect to hear from:

\* Companies, large and small, running Riak and Riak CS in production
\* Members of the Basho Engineering team discussing features, road map,
and Riak app development
\* Leading thinkers and practitioners in distributed systems from
industry and academia
\* Much more

The confirmed speakers as of right now are:

\* Jeff Dean (Google Fellow) - Closing Keynote
\* Kate Matsudaira (Founder & CTO, Pop Forms)
\* Justin Sheehy (CTO, Basho Technologies)
\* Pete Bailis (UC Berkeley)
\* Jeff Hodges (Distributed Systems Engineer, Twitter)

See the Speakers page for their full bios: ricon.io/west.html#speakers

We'll also be opening a CFP in early June (and I expect to hear from
all of you).

As usual, we're keeping the ticket prices as cheap as possible:

\* Early Bird - $299 (This price won't last forever)
\* Full Price - $399
\* Student - $149

Buy your passes here: ricon-west-2013.eventbrite.com

If you're interested in a group discount for your team, email me
directly. We're happy to accommodate.

Lastly, if you're interested in sponsoring, we just posted the prospectus:

http://thecloud.data.riakcs.net:8080/RICON-West-2013-Prospectus.pdf

We hope you can join us at RICON West 2013. This will be the largest
gathering of the Riak community to date, and it's not to be missed.

Thanks for being a part of Riak.

Mark
twitter.com/pharkmillups
413.335.2332

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

