---
title: "Re: Riak 2.9.0 - Update Available"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2019-06-28T13:56:50-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg18627"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg18621"
author_name: "Martin Sumner"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2019-06-28T13:56:50-07:00
---


Russell,

WRT naming. As we'd already announced at CodeBEAM that 2.9.1 was pending
in September and would be adding some extra functionality (the automated
repl replacement), I didn't want to call the patched versions of 2.9.0 by
that name, as that might cause confusion. The whole choosing 2.9 thing has
unnecessarily cramped naming up, which was my bad. I've turned Riak
release numbering into a confusing mess. So apologies for that.

Hopefully we can return to a more sane numbering system from 3.0. Perhaps
someone else should choose!

Regards

On Fri, 28 Jun 2019 at 09:34, Martin Sumner 
wrote:

&gt; There is now a second update available for 2.9.0:
&gt; https://github.com/basho/riak/tree/riak-2.9.0p2.
&gt;
&gt; This patch, like the patch before, resolves a memory management issue in
&gt; leveled, which this time could be triggered by sending many large objects
&gt; in a short period of time. The underlying problem is described a bit
&gt; further here https://github.com/martinsumner/leveled/issues/285, and is
&gt; resolved by leveled working more sympathetically with the beam binary
&gt; memory management.
&gt;
&gt; Switching to the patched version is not urgent unless you are using the
&gt; leveled backend, and may send a large number of large objects in a burst.
&gt;
&gt; Updated packages are available (thanks to Nick Adams at TI Tokyo) -
&gt; https://files.tiot.jp/riak/kv/2.9/2.9.0p2/
&gt;
&gt; Thanks again to the testing team at the NHS Spine project, Aaron Gibbon
&gt; (BJSS) and Ramen Sen, who discovered the problem. The issue was discovered
&gt; in a handoff scenario where there were a tens of thousands of 2MB objects
&gt; stored in a portion of the keyspace at the end of the handoff - which led
&gt; to memory issues until either more PUTs were received (to force a persist
&gt; to disk) or a restart occurred..
&gt;
&gt; Regards
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Sat, 25 May 2019 at 09:35, Martin Sumner 
&gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Unfortunately, Riak 2.9.0 was released with an issue whereby a race
&gt;&gt; condition in heavy-PUT scenarios (e.g. handoffs), could cause a leak of
&gt;&gt; file descriptors.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; The issue is described here -
&gt;&gt; https://github.com/basho/riak\_kv/issues/1699, and the underlying issue
&gt;&gt; here - https://github.com/martinsumner/leveled/issues/278.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; There is a new patched version of the release available (2.9.0p1) at
&gt;&gt; https://github.com/basho/riak/tree/riak-2.9.0p1. This should be used in
&gt;&gt; preference to the original release of 2.9.0.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Updated packages are available (thanks to Nick Adams at TI Tokyo) -
&gt;&gt; https://files.tiot.jp/riak/kv/2.9/2.9.0p1/
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks also to the testing team at the NHS Spine project, Aaron Gibbon
&gt;&gt; (BJSS) and Ramen Sen, who discovered the problem.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Regards
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Martin
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

