---
title: "Re: error on object retrieval: Cannot send another request while one	is in progress"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-09-23T15:28:52-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16564"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16563"
author_name: "Sargun Dhillon"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-09-23T15:28:52-07:00
---


if there is a failure, and leader is re-elected, the epoch of the ensemble
changes, so you may have to refetch the object to get a new causal context
in order to perform another write. If this occurs, you should be able to
heal by doing another read, modify, write cycle.

On Wed, Sep 23, 2015 at 3:21 PM, Luke Bakken  wrote:

&gt; Hristo,
&gt;
&gt; How are you communicating with Riak? Which client library is being used?
&gt; --
&gt; Luke Bakken
&gt; Engineer
&gt; lbak...@basho.com
&gt;
&gt; On Wed, Sep 23, 2015 at 3:18 PM, Hristo Asenov
&gt;  wrote:
&gt; &gt; Hello,
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; I am using a strongly consistent bucket type. I need to simulate
&gt; instances where a process can crash and recover. When a crash occurs, I
&gt; cleanly disconnect and destroy the memory (through a signal handler).
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Sometimes, when process recovery occurs, performing a get on an object
&gt; is successful, however a subsequent set with the Vector Clock from the
&gt; previous get results in the error “Cannot send another request while one is
&gt; in progress”. I found the error in riak\_api project, file
&gt; riak\_api\_pb\_server.erl, but don’t really understand why the error gets
&gt; thrown. Would someone be able to instruct me as to the cause of the error?
&gt; I am using the current riak version from the main repository.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; - Hristo
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

