---
title: "Re: [ANN] riak-js v0.10.0"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-05-03T09:04:19-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11006"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg11005"
author_name: "Sebastian Cohnen"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-05-03T09:04:19-07:00
---


Hey Mathias,

this is awesome news, thanks for your work! I'll see what I can do to test the 
new version against production traffic.

One question though: I don't know the work of Andrew, but do you support real 
HTTP keep alive? (not node.js' pseudo keep alive). I had to implement my own 
http agent and inject it into a previous version of riak-js to get useful 
performance. I'd like to drop that hack.


Best

Sebastian

On 03.05.2013, at 17:55, Mathias Meyer  wrote:

&gt; Heya,
&gt; 
&gt; Just shipped riak-js 0.10.0, with support for Protocol Buffers: 
&gt; https://npmjs.org/package/riak-js
&gt; 
&gt; To use protobufs, specify a different API option when creating a client:
&gt; 
&gt; var riak = require('riak-js').getClient({api: 'protobuf'})
&gt; 
&gt; I'd love to have some feedback on how the protobuffs support works with real 
&gt; workloads, if anyone feels like trying it out. Please report any issues 
&gt; you're seeing: https://github.com/mostlyserious/riak-js/issues
&gt; 
&gt; Currently it's still using a single connection, but I'll work on adding 
&gt; connection pooling next. Already merged Andrew J. Stone's support for pooled 
&gt; HTTP connection into the current master, will work off that for protobuffs as 
&gt; well.
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks to Nathan LaFreniere for his awesome riakpbc and protobuf.js 
&gt; libraries, which helped me a lot!
&gt; 
&gt; Cheers, Mathias
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

