---
title: "Re: Riak 2.0 Search Issues"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-03-04T11:23:10-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15825"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15814"
author_name: "Zeeshan Lakhani"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-03-04T11:23:10-08:00
---


Hey Steve,

Sorry to see you’re having new issues.

We’ll have the fix for “space in the key” out soon; it’s currently under 
review. And, I know that this issue is unrelated.

I have a few different routes/thoughts for you, but are you seeing anything 
related to `yz\_events,handle\_info` in your crash logs? Also, can you 
gist/pastebin me your solr logs? I’d like to seem if it correlates with 
something we’re currently looking at. 

Thanks. 

Zeeshan Lakhani
programmer | 
software engineer at @basho | 
org. member/founder of @papers\_we\_love | paperswelove.org
twitter =&gt; @zeeshanlakhani

&gt; On Mar 4, 2015, at 10:39 AM, Steve Garon  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; Hey all, 
&gt; 
&gt; We were having the "space in the key" bug in our cluster so we went through 
&gt; the whole dataset, backing it up to json file and removing the spaces in the 
&gt; keys. Then we trashed our whole cluster and restart from scratch reimporting 
&gt; the whole data. Everything worked like a charm for two weeks but this 
&gt; weekend, not sure what happened but AAE died again. 
&gt; 
&gt; I have two issues now: 
&gt; 1. AAE is trying to recreate an index that already exists and crashes with an 
&gt; "Already exists" error ... I get this in my error log every 15 seconds
&gt; 2. AAE crashes while iterating through entropy data with a request timeout 
&gt; error every hour followed by tons of failed to index objects with request 
&gt; timeout as well. Stack trace looks like this:
&gt; 
&gt; [error] emulator Error in process &lt;025931.7166&gt; on node 'riak@IP' with exit 
&gt; value: {function\_clause,[{yz\_entropy,iterate\_entropy\_data,[&lt;&lt;11 
&gt; bytes&gt;&gt;,[{continuation,&lt;&lt;159 
&gt; bytes&gt;&gt;},{limit,100},{partition,12}],#Fun (TRUNCATED)
&gt; 
&gt; [error] &lt;0.1371.0&gt;@yz\_kv:index:215 failed to index object 
&gt; {{&lt;&lt;"TYPE"&gt;&gt;,&lt;&lt;"BUCKET"&gt;&gt;},&lt;&lt;"KEY"&gt;&gt;} with error {"Failed to index 
&gt; docs",{error,req\_timeout}} because ... (REPEATED MULTIPLE TIME FOR DIFFERENT 
&gt; KEYS)
&gt; 
&gt; I tried clearing the yz anti-entropy tree and reinitialising the 
&gt; yz\_entropy\_mgr with no luck. Anything I can do to fix this? 
&gt; 
&gt; Oh FYI, I cannot insert data with spaces in the key anymore because we are 
&gt; using a wrapper on top of riak that will prevent us to do so therefore my 
&gt; issues are not related to this for sure.
&gt; 
&gt; These are some config changes that may be good to know for more context.
&gt; We added this to ibrowse.conf:
&gt; {dest, "localhost", 8093, 100, 1000, []}.
&gt; 
&gt; Jetty is set with minthread 80, acceptors 80, and is using the NIO connector.
&gt; 
&gt; All our solr buckets have filterCache disabled with softcommits set to 10s 
&gt; instead of 1.
&gt; 
&gt; Our riak.conf has background\_manager turned on with AAE and handoff using it.
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; 
&gt; Steve
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

