---
title: "Re: Stale index entries after delete"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2017-03-17T05:27:09-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg18090"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg18089"
author_name: "Fred Dushin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2017-03-17T05:27:09-07:00
---


Hello Bernard,

Thank you for writing this up, and apologies for the delay in responding.

I have not been able to readily reproduce this in my test environment, and our 
Riak tests (e.g., [1]) test scenarios very much like this.

If this is a test environment, can you try stopping riak, deleting your 
data/yz\_anti\_entropy directory, and restarting? Monitor the output of 
riak-admin search aae-status for all trees to rebuild and all exchanges to 
complete, and check to verify that your search results are correct?

Also, if you have any additional bucket properties configured (e.g., strong 
consistency, allow\_mult, lww, etc), please send those along.

[1] https://github.com/basho/yokozuna/blob/develop/riak\_test/yz\_siblings.erl

&gt; On Mar 14, 2017, at 11:39 PM, Bernard Duggan  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; Hi list,
&gt; We're seeing some weird behaviour that I haven't been able to find any decent 
&gt; explanation for. Essentially, after deleting records out of a bucket, the 
&gt; records continue to persist in the solr index for that bucket type.
&gt; 
&gt; Things that might matter:
&gt; \* We're using v2.2.1 (and also saw it on 2.2.0)
&gt; \* We're using the `memory` storage backend for Riak.
&gt; \* The indices showing the problem have various schemas, but it happens with 
&gt; `\_yz\_default` as easily as any others.
&gt; \* `anti\_entropy` and `search` are both turned on.
&gt; \* This happens on single-node developer "clusters" with n\_val set to 3. We 
&gt; haven't tried any other configurations yet.
&gt; 
&gt; The problem doesn't seem to take any special actions to trigger - we write a 
&gt; few objects to a bucket and they show up in the index. Then we delete them, 
&gt; wait a few seconds to make sure everything's caught up, and read the index 
&gt; and they're often (though it seems not always - I haven't been able to pin 
&gt; down the exact circumstances) still there. It's also reproducible if we stop 
&gt; and start riak (which clears out the memory-backed buckets but doesn't seem 
&gt; to do the same for the indices).
&gt; 
&gt; Is this a known issue with/feature of memory-backed buckets or is there 
&gt; somewhere else we should look?
&gt; 
&gt; Cheers,
&gt; 
&gt; Bernard
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

