---
title: "Re: Riak Search having issues with custom schema"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-01-09T08:12:56-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15455"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15454"
author_name: "Luke Bakken"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-01-09T08:12:56-08:00
---


How are you storing these objects? What "Content-Type" is being used?
--
Luke Bakken
Engineer
lbak...@basho.com


On Fri, Jan 9, 2015 at 7:04 AM, Santi Kumar  wrote:
&gt; Hi,
&gt; We are having issues with Riak Search custom schema. Application has
&gt; multiple POJO's and we are using Java client to write into RIakKV.
&gt; Configured custom solr schema with indexed fields from all POJOs. After
&gt; adding the "Catch-All" field, solr is not indexing any fields from any of
&gt; the Pojo.
&gt;
&gt; No errors in solr log also. Not having any clues why nothing is indexed
&gt; except the Riak fields. Here is how the fields are specified in solr schema,
&gt; not attaching everything. We have multiple indexes and buckets for different
&gt; pojos, but difined only one schema for all the indexes. Same schema is being
&gt; configured for each index. Would that be an issue? For example for Access
&gt; has seperate index and condition has seperate index. But both fields for
&gt; both of them are defined in one schema and passed to both the indexes.
&gt;
&gt; 
&gt;
&gt; 
&gt;
&gt;  stored="false" /&gt;
&gt;
&gt;  /&gt;
&gt;
&gt; 
&gt;
&gt; 
&gt;
&gt;  stored="false" /&gt;
&gt;
&gt; 
&gt;
&gt; 
&gt;
&gt; 
&gt;
&gt; 
&gt;
&gt; 
&gt;
&gt; 
&gt;
&gt; 
&gt;
&gt; 
&gt;
&gt; 
&gt;
&gt; 
&gt;
&gt; 
&gt;
&gt; Thanks
&gt; Santi
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

