---
title: "Re: Riak occasionally not storing objects"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-10-23T12:04:00-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12741"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12739"
author_name: "Brian Sparrow"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-10-23T12:04:00-07:00
---


In addition to Andrew’s question, what are the bucket properties for the bucket 
you are doing the writes against? 

Thanks, 

-- 
Brian Sparrow
Developer Advocate
Basho Technologies

Sent with Sparrow (http://www.sparrowmailapp.com/?sig)


On Wednesday, October 23, 2013 at 2:40 PM, Andrew Thompson wrote:

&gt; On Wed, Oct 23, 2013 at 02:36:11PM -0400, David Greenstein wrote:
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; Hello All,
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; I have a Riak cluster with 5 nodes on AWS m1.large instances, all using EBS 
&gt; &gt; deadline scheduling. The cluster is accessed via node.js and the riak-js 
&gt; &gt; library using the HTTP protocol. I’ve tried it with and without connection 
&gt; &gt; pooling. All software has been updated to the latest versions.
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; Occasionally, riak seems to not store an object I try to save. I have run 
&gt; &gt; tcpdump on the node receiving the request to ensure it is receiving the 
&gt; &gt; http packets with the correct JSON from the client. When the issue occurs 
&gt; &gt; the node is in fact receiving the request with the correct JSON.
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; Has anyone else experienced an issue like this? Any hints on how to debug 
&gt; &gt; the situation would be greatly appreciated.
&gt; 
&gt; What are your read and write quorums, and does the write report that it
&gt; suceeded?
&gt; 
&gt; Andrew
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; 


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

