---
title: "Re: Precommit hook function - no error log - how to debug?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2016-05-16T07:49:47-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg17369"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg17342"
author_name: "Luke Bakken"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2016-05-16T07:49:47-07:00
---


Hi Sanket,

Thanks for providing that information, this is the first time that the
"write\_once" bucket type property was mentioned.

If you set the precommit hook on a different bucket type where there
are \*no other\* custom bucket type properties set, does the precommit
hook run successfully?

--
Luke Bakken
Engineer
lbak...@basho.com

On Mon, May 16, 2016 at 7:17 AM, Sanket Agrawal
 wrote:
&gt; Hi Luke,
&gt;
&gt; More on the precommit hook debugging I just did - I might have a handle on
&gt; what the problem is. I took a cluster-info dump for all the nodes in the
&gt; cluster. In the dump, precommit is set to [] for all the buckets in the
&gt; cluster. The reason for that seems to be that the bucket type with
&gt; "write-once" property where precommit hook is set, is not in the cluster
&gt; somehow!
&gt;
&gt; The bucket type name is "test\_kv\_wo". Let us grep for it in cluster\_info.txt
&gt; - it doesn't show up at all (another bucket type "test\_kv" shows up
&gt; instead):
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; $ grep test\_kv cluster\_info.txt | sort -u
&gt;&gt; [[{bucket,&lt;&lt;"test\_kv"&gt;&gt;}|
&gt;&gt; {name,&lt;&lt;"test\_kv"&gt;&gt;},
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Now, let us verify we can get the props for the bucket type fine from curl:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; $ curl localhost:8098/types/test\_kv\_wo/buckets/uuid\_log/props:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; {"props":{"name":"uuid\_log","active":true,"allow\_mult":true,"basic\_quorum":false,"big\_vclock":50,"chash\_keyfun":{"mod":"riak\_core\_util","fun":"chash\_std\_keyfun"},"claimant":"riak1@127.0.0.1","dvv\_enabled":true,"dw":"quorum","last\_write\_wins":false,"linkfun":{"mod":"riak\_kv\_wm\_link\_walker","fun":"mapreduce\_linkfun"},"n\_val":3,"name":"uuid\_log","notfound\_ok":true,"old\_vclock":86400,"postcommit":[],"pr":0,"precommit":[{"mod":"rtriggers","fun":"pre\_uuid"}],"pw":0,"r":"quorum","rw":"quorum","small\_vclock":50,"w":"quorum","write\_once":true,"young\_vclock":20}}
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; So, the problem might be missing bucket types in the cluster since they
&gt; don't show up in cluster-info at all? The same thing happens with LWW bucket
&gt; type that I created, test\_kv\_lww. It doesn't show up either. CRDT bucket
&gt; types show up fine.

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

