---
title: "Re: Riak Search and PDF files"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-06-14T16:04:11-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11281"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg11280"
author_name: "Eric Redmond"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-06-14T16:04:11-07:00
---


The short answer is: not without writing some code.

The longer answer is:

To search PDFs in RiakSearch you must write your own extractor[1], which 
requires writing some Erlang, and use some PDF extraction library. Or if you 
already have the text handy, manually index the data yourself using update 
commands.

Another option, is to take a look at Yokozuna[2]. Since it uses Solr to index, 
it is possible. We have an issue[3] to integrate SolrCell. Again, this will 
require some coding, but potentially less. Or, write a yokozuna extractor. The 
community would certainly appreciate the help.


[1]: 
http://docs.basho.com/riak/1.3.1/cookbooks/Riak-Search---Indexing-and-Querying-Riak-KV-Data/#Other-Data-Encodings
[2]: http://github.com/basho/yokozuna
[3]: https://github.com/basho/yokozuna/issues/17


On Jun 14, 2013, at 11:55 AM, Wagner Caixeta Rodrigues 
 wrote:

&gt; Hi Everyone,
&gt; 
&gt; At 1st i want to say, Riak is a amazing project and i love open source.
&gt; 
&gt; I was searching some kind of storage api to make attached files cross apps 
&gt; and found Riak.
&gt; 
&gt; In the other way i need full text search too.
&gt; 
&gt; So Riak looks like to fits perfectly.
&gt; 
&gt; But i have one question:
&gt; 
&gt; What is the best way to store "searchable PDFs" in Riak and allow 
&gt; full-text-search. Will i need to extractthe text from PDFs in my Ruby App and 
&gt; store the text in Riak too?
&gt; 
&gt; Looks like i need to have one bucket with the PDFs files and other with the 
&gt; same key but in clear text. Ami right ?
&gt; 
&gt; Would be perfect is could be possible just search directly in the PDFs files, 
&gt; natively or using some kind ofplugin.
&gt; 
&gt; Tks.
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; --
&gt; Wagner Caixeta Rodrigues
&gt; Assembleia Legislativa do Estado de Goiás
&gt; Seção de Administração de Dados
&gt; (62) 3221-3255 / (62) 8412-6415
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

