---
title: "Re: AWS instance types"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-12-08T02:20:55-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16852"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16851"
author_name: "Cosmin Marginean"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-12-08T02:20:55-08:00
---


Both AWS engineers and Basho people, will most likely ask for throughput etc 
before recommending solutions.

That being said, there’s a few things to consider. For example, most AWS 
engineers will suggest you use all the availability zones when deploying a 
distributed storage solution like Riak. That gives you enough resilience for a 
broad range of scenarios and failures. You won’t get the 10 Gbps network you’d 
get with a placement group. But on the other hand a placement group means 
running everything in a single availability zone =&gt; less resilience.

Again, it depends a lot on the use case. We don’t do financial transactions, 
and we have moderate IO, so we went with m4 instances in 3 availability zones. 
I believe I would still favour this setup even for considerably higher IO. 
Mainly because we have literally just one bucket that is required to be 
strongly consistent, everything else (99%) is still something we manage using 
conflict resolution, etc. 
So that’s another aspect to consider - if you have a lot of strong consistency 
usecases then probably a placement group would help when you have a high volume 
of writes.

Regards
Cosmin


On Tuesday, 8 December 2015 at 09:20, Alexander Popov wrote:

&gt; What to choose C4 or M4 ?
&gt; 
&gt; M4 benefits:
&gt; \* twice more memory
&gt; 
&gt; C4 benefits:
&gt; \* can be launched in one placement group, that potential can improve nodes 
&gt; communications performance
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; 


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

