---
title: "Re: Max/Min Integer CRDTs?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-02-08T15:29:06-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13629"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13627"
author_name: "Elias Levy"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-02-08T15:29:06-08:00
---


No, not a counter. An integer register that keeps either the minimum or
the maximum value ever assigned to it (there be two variants, one for
minimum and one for maximum).

In our particularly use case we'd like to keep the earliest and latest
observed time of certain events, and it would be useful to be able to set
these values in a Riak map data type without first having to fetch the map,
compare the values in a register, and then write the map back. And doing
this is not equivalent, since the current register implementation is LWW,
so you are not guaranteed to actually end up with the minimum or maximum.



On Sat, Feb 8, 2014 at 3:00 PM, Jason Campbell  wrote:

&gt; My understanding of what Elias wanted was a counter that simply stored the
&gt; minimum and maximum values it has ever reached, an optional reset would
&gt; probably be nice as well. It would be quite helpful when dealing with
&gt; statistics counters that can decrement.
&gt;
&gt; Then again, I could be wrong.
&gt;
&gt; ----- Original Message -----
&gt; From: "Russell Brown" 
&gt; To: "Elias Levy" 
&gt; Cc: "riak-users" 
&gt; Sent: Sunday, 9 February, 2014 9:53:42 AM
&gt; Subject: Re: Max/Min Integer CRDTs?
&gt;
&gt; Hi Elias,
&gt;
&gt; This is a great time for you to ask, if you're asking what I think you're
&gt; asking.
&gt;
&gt; On 8 Feb 2014, at 22:35, Elias Levy  wrote:
&gt;
&gt; &gt; Does Basho have any plans for implementing a CRDT that maintains the
&gt; minimum or maximum value for an integer? It would come in handy in our
&gt; application and it would be very simple to implement.
&gt;
&gt; Do you mean some kind of bounded counter that cannot be incremented beyond
&gt; (say 1000), or decremented below a certain bound (i.e. non-negative
&gt; counter?) If so, then the plan is yes, but I'm not sure it is simple. If
&gt; you have a design for such a thing please share it. We're working with a
&gt; team from Universidade Nova de Lisboa as part of the SyncFree project on
&gt; this, but I'd love to hear your ideas for an implementation. If you want to
&gt; keep it private feel free to email me off list.
&gt;
&gt; Cheers
&gt;
&gt; Russell
&gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Elias Levy
&gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

