---
title: "Re: Tune Riak for fast inserts - populate DB"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-02-13T00:21:06-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10110"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg10109"
author_name: "Bogdan Flueras"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-02-13T00:21:06-08:00
---


Each thread has it's own bucket instance (pointing to the same location)
and I don't re-fetch the bucket per insert.
Thank you very much!

ing. Bogdan Flueras



On Wed, Feb 13, 2013 at 10:14 AM, Russell Brown wrote:

&gt;
&gt; On 13 Feb 2013, at 08:07, Bogdan Flueras  wrote:
&gt;
&gt; &gt; How to set the bucket to last write? Is it in the builder?
&gt;
&gt; Something like:
&gt;
&gt; Bucket b = client.createBucket("my\_bucket").lastWriteWins(true);
&gt;
&gt; Also, after you've created the bucket, do you use it from all threads? You
&gt; don't re-fetch the bucket per-insert operation, do you?
&gt;
&gt; But the "withoutFecth()" option is probably going to be the biggest
&gt; performance increase, and safe if you are only doing inserts.
&gt;
&gt; Cheers
&gt;
&gt; Russell
&gt;
&gt; &gt; I'll have a look..
&gt; &gt; Yes, I use more threads and the bucket is configured to spread the load
&gt; across all nodes.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Thanks, I'll have a deeper look into the API and let you know about my
&gt; results.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; ing. Bogdan Flueras
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; On Wed, Feb 13, 2013 at 10:02 AM, Russell Brown 
&gt; wrote:
&gt; &gt; Hi,
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; On 13 Feb 2013, at 07:37, Bogdan Flueras 
&gt; wrote:
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; Hello all,
&gt; &gt; &gt; I've got a 5 node cluster with Riak 1.2.1, all machines are multicore,
&gt; &gt; &gt; with min 4GB RAM.
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; I want to insert something like 50 million records in Riak with the
&gt; java client (Protobuf used) with default settings. I've tried also with
&gt; HTTP protocol and set w = 1 but got some problems.
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; However the process is very slow: it doesn't write more than 6GB/ hour
&gt; or aprox. 280 KB/second.
&gt; &gt; &gt; To have all my data filled in, it would take aprox 2 days !!
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; What can I do to have the data filled into Riak ASAP?
&gt; &gt; &gt; How should I configure the cluster ? (vm.args/ app.config) I don't
&gt; care so much about consistency at this point.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; If you are certain to be only inserting new data setting your bucket(s)
&gt; to last write wins will speed things up. Also, are you using multiple
&gt; threads for the Java client insert? Spreading the load across all five
&gt; nodes? Are you using the "withoutFetch()" option on the java client?
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Cheers
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Russell
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; Thank you,
&gt; &gt; &gt; ing. Bogdan Flueras
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

