---
title: "Re: Riak Search and Yokozuna Backup Strategy"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-01-27T12:21:33-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13496"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13495"
author_name: "Matthew Von-Maszewski"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-01-27T12:21:33-08:00
---



On Jan 27, 2014, at 3:06 PM, Elias Levy  wrote:

&gt; On Mon, Jan 27, 2014 at 11:57 AM, Matthew Von-Maszewski  
&gt; wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; Google's designed leveldb to always assume it was not cleanly shutdown. If 
&gt; the startup can read the most recent MANIFEST file, leveldb cleans up the 
&gt; rest of the mess.
&gt; 
&gt; However, using the backup strategy previously discussed (backup sst\_? 
&gt; directories numerically … rsync or tar) creates a scenario where the MANIFEST 
&gt; file is likely incorrect in a manner that leveldb will not detect (hmm … 
&gt; maybe it could detect it but no one thought to add a test). That is why we 
&gt; always recommend (require!) that you manually run repair after a restore.
&gt; 
&gt; So, yes, but its not sufficient. Got it. Thanks.
&gt; 
&gt; And I assume that currently requires attaching to the Riak console and 
&gt; executing something like:
&gt; 
&gt; eleveldb:repair("/var/db/riak/leveldb/442446784738847563128068650529343492278651453440",
&gt; []).
&gt; 
&gt; for every vnode LevelDB in any eleveldb backend?
&gt; 

So, yes. But the underlying theory is that restore via backups is the last 
ditch effort when all the N=3 / active anti-entropy (and multi-datacenter 
replication) niceties have failed (like when your datacenter is flooded).

That said, Basho's product management is working aggressively to define a 
better, more holistic backup/restore feature to add after the 2.0 release.

Matthew

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

