---
title: "Re: Yokozuna unpredictable result count"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-02-19T07:41:23-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15746"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15744"
author_name: "Cezary Kosko"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-02-19T07:41:23-08:00
---


I have the exact same issue with regular http search queries, so I guess
I'll just describe that part.

I've got a bucket of maps-of-sets, 2 of them are entityId\_set and
timestamps\_set. Its search index is called 'job' and it's only this bucket
that's indexed.

When I run

curl
"localhost:8098/search/query/job?wt=json&q=entityId\_set:100000000000000000%20AND%20timestamps\_set:%5B1419721530%20TO%201419721539%5D"

(that's a query that is supposed to return exactly one result), the
numFound field is either 0 or 1, it seems that I get both kinds of result
in 10 consecutive requests (and the timeAllowed parameter I wrote about, it
doesn't really help).

That's the way they're handled in the schema:

 



Kind regards,
Cezary

2015-02-19 16:04 GMT+01:00 Zeeshan Lakhani :

&gt; Hello Cezary,
&gt;
&gt; Firstly, are you able to retrieve your search result consistently when not
&gt; using doing a mapreduce job?
&gt;
&gt; To better help out, can you send a gist of the mapreduce code you’re
&gt; running? Thanks.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Feb 18, 2015, at 9:13 PM, Cezary Kosko  wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Hi,
&gt;
&gt; I've got a search index, and I'd like to run mapred job against that
&gt; index. The thing is, for a search query that should return exactly one
&gt; result, I sometimes (not always, yet not rarely) get none, i.e. the mapred
&gt; job returns an empty list instead of, say, a list containing a single
&gt; object. Did this only happen some time after uploading the data and then
&gt; was consistently giving the right results, I wouldn't object. However, it's
&gt; kind of an on-and-off situation - I get proper results, but then for a
&gt; brief period of time I don't and so on.
&gt;
&gt; I've read on a solr doc page that specifying a timeAllowed parameter in
&gt; the query can give it longer to gather results and help, but that can't be
&gt; specified in a mapred definition, or can it?
&gt;
&gt; Is there anything else I can look for?
&gt;
&gt; The data I'm querying is of the CRDT map-of-sets type, should that be of
&gt; any relevance.
&gt;
&gt; Kind regards,
&gt; Cezary
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

