---
title: "Re: Link Walking and Security"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-01-21T04:09:34-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15548"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15545"
author_name: "Christopher Meiklejohn"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-01-21T04:09:34-08:00
---



&gt; On Jan 21, 2015, at 12:21 PM, José Ghislain Quenum 
&gt;  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; well the application I am developing is Collaboration support tool. You have 
&gt; a bunch of concepts (organization, project, collaboration activities, events, 
&gt; etc). Some of these concepts are connected. So, I could have modeled them 
&gt; with a Relational DB. But I really wanted to take advantage of Riak's 
&gt; distributed nature. So I decided to use links to model the connection between 
&gt; the concepts. Now transitioning to Riak 2.0 is a bit of a problem to me. 
&gt; Since I need to change the design of my DB and remove links and their 
&gt; walking. I have been considering moving the links to a graph DB like Neo4j or 
&gt; even redesign the links as additional attributes in the concepts themselves. 
&gt; None of these seems like a clean solution to me. If I could have pointers 
&gt; about new ways of designing connections or links in risk 2.0 without using 
&gt; link walking that'd be cool.
&gt; Any help?
&gt; José

Hi Jose,

As Brian Roach notes here, [1] you can still perform link-walking through the 
MapReduce, which is how the functionality has always operated when using the 
Riak Protocol Buffers interface, given it never supported this. This should 
make it slightly easier to upgrade your application to 2.0; although you won’t 
be able to use the deprecated client interfaces.

That said, you may want to investigate using the new Riak data types [2]; if 
you’ve already adapted your application to deal with eventual consistency 
without any specific causal guarantees (independent object updates — possible 
to update a link and have delayed propagation of the linked object; hence, no 
causal consistency), you could investigate alternative ways of representing a 
graph such as using the map data structure to track edges and vertices, etc.. 
Obviously, this is application specific based on your consistency requirements 
and barring any size limitations of your data set.

Thanks,
- Chris

[1] 
http://riak-users.197444.n3.nabble.com/link-walking-in-the-Riak-2-0-Ruby-client-tp4030780p4030783.html
 

[2] http://docs.basho.com/riak/2.0.0/dev/using/data-types/ 
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

