---
title: "Re: Getting a list of events using secondary index"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-10-17T13:44:32-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12676"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12675"
author_name: "Brady Wetherington"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-10-17T13:44:32-07:00
---


You don't say \_how\_ you get the last\_event\_id for a particular aggregate -
but presuming that's a relatively trivial operation - you could change
around your secondary index so you just have to make a range query.

Instead of - or possibly in addition to - the aggregate\_id, you could have
an aggregate\_id\_event\_id composite index, which contains something like
":". Then, for a query for aggregate\_id "x", you
would do a range query for x: to x:999999999999

After that, you'd still have to do the multi-key get to grab your events.
But if the number of events per aggregate is 'very large' and the number of
events per aggregate greater than last\_event\_id is "small", then it could
help.

-B.


On Thu, Oct 17, 2013 at 3:53 PM, Alex Robson  wrote:

&gt; Working on an event-sourcing aproach and would really appreciate some
&gt; advice.
&gt;
&gt; 1. Every event is tagged with a secondary index ("aggregate\_id")
&gt; 2. Every event's id is k-ordered (using a Flake compatible id generator)
&gt; 3. Every aggregate has last\_event\_id
&gt;
&gt; I would like the ability to select all event ids, for a given an
&gt; aggregate\_id that occurred after the last\_event\_id for a given aggregate.
&gt;
&gt; At the moment, I am using the secondary index only to get all event ids
&gt; for a particular aggregate. I then filter the id list so that I only have
&gt; the ids that occurred after last\_event\_id. I then issue a multi-key get and
&gt; retrieve the events I want.
&gt;
&gt; Latency is fairly important in this case and so I wanted to see if there
&gt; were a better way (or if what I'm doing is just an awful misuse of Riak). I
&gt; got the impression from reading docs that map/reduce is not ideal for
&gt; real-time operations and intended more for batch stuff that runs out of
&gt; band. This series of operations would occur for every read of the aggregate.
&gt;
&gt; Thanks for your help and thanks for Riak :)
&gt;
&gt; Alex
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

