---
title: "Re: Upgrade from 1.3.1 to 1.4.2 => high IO"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-12-10T07:44:16-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13188"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13185"
author_name: "Matthew Von-Maszewski"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-12-10T07:44:16-08:00
---


The sad truth is that you are not the first to see this problem. And yes, it 
has to do with your 950GB per node dataset. And no, nothing to do but sit 
through it at this time.

While I did extensive testing around upgrade times before shipping 1.4, 
apparently there are data configurations I did not anticipate. You are likely 
seeing a cascade where a shift of one file from level-1 to level-2 is causing a 
shift of another file from level-2 to level-3, which causes a level-3 file to 
shift to level-4, etc … then the next file shifts from level-1.

The bright side of this pain is that you will end up with better write 
throughput once all the compaction ends.

Riak 2.0's leveldb has code to prevent/reduce compaction cascades, but that is 
not going to help you today.

Matthew

On Dec 10, 2013, at 10:26 AM, Simon Effenberg  wrote:

&gt; Hi @list,
&gt; 
&gt; I'm trying to upgrade our Riak cluster from 1.3.1 to 1.4.2 .. after
&gt; upgrading the first node (out of 12) this node seems to do many merges.
&gt; the sst\_\* directories changes in size "rapidly" and the node is having
&gt; a disk utilization of 100% all the time.
&gt; 
&gt; I know that there is something like that:
&gt; 
&gt; "The first execution of 1.4.0 leveldb using a 1.3.x or 1.2.x dataset
&gt; will initiate an automatic conversion that could pause the startup of
&gt; each node by 3 to 7 minutes. The leveldb data in "level #1" is being
&gt; adjusted such that "level #1" can operate as an overlapped data level
&gt; instead of as a sorted data level. The conversion is simply the
&gt; reduction of the number of files in "level #1" to being less than eight
&gt; via normal compaction of data from "level #1" into "level #2". This is
&gt; a one time conversion."
&gt; 
&gt; but it looks much more invasive than explained here or doesn't have to
&gt; do anything with the (probably seen) merges.
&gt; 
&gt; Is this "normal" behavior or could I do anything about it?
&gt; 
&gt; At the moment I'm stucked with the upgrade procedure because this high
&gt; IO load would probably lead to high response times.
&gt; 
&gt; Also we have a lot of data (per node ~950 GB).
&gt; 
&gt; Cheers
&gt; Simon
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

