---
title: "Re: Connection attempt from disallowed node"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-10-14T08:03:16-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12619"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12600"
author_name: "Luke Bakken"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-10-14T08:03:16-07:00
---


Sohil -

That's surprising since that's the standard reason for that error. I would
recommend checking your vm.args files using "diff" or a hex editor to
ensure they are identical.

You can then use "riak attach" to attach to your nodes and retrieve the
cookie value using this statement:

erlang:get\_cookie().

--
Luke Bakken
CSE
lbak...@basho.com


On Fri, Oct 11, 2013 at 7:42 PM, raghwani sohil  wrote:

&gt; Hi Luke ,
&gt; It's same on all nodes. I didn't change \*-cookie \*parameter in vm.args
&gt; file ,
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; Sohil
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Fri, Oct 11, 2013 at 8:44 PM, Luke Bakken  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hello Sohil,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Could you please check the `vm.args' file on your existing node and your
&gt;&gt; new node to ensure that the `-cookie' parameter is the same on each?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; Luke Bakken
&gt;&gt; CSE
&gt;&gt; lbak...@basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Fri, Oct 11, 2013 at 7:02 AM, raghwani sohil wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Hi ,
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; I have three node riak(0.14.2) cluster on production(all nodes running
&gt;&gt;&gt; on RHEL OS).
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; I have one CentOS system on which one riak node(0.14.2) is setup using
&gt;&gt;&gt; RHEL binary.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; When I m trying add CentOS riak node to existing cluster then I am
&gt;&gt;&gt; getting
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; error \*Node r...@a.b.c.xxx is not reachable! \*and in sasl-error.log
&gt;&gt;&gt; file it's showing
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; \*Connection attempt from disallowed node 'riak@\*\*a.d.c.YYY\*\*'\*
&gt;&gt;&gt; \*
&gt;&gt;&gt; \*
&gt;&gt;&gt; can any one help on the same?
&gt;&gt;&gt; \*
&gt;&gt;&gt; \*
&gt;&gt;&gt; thanks,
&gt;&gt;&gt; Sohil
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

