---
title: "Re: put failing with error"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2016-01-14T13:09:44-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16970"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16926"
author_name: "Luke Bakken"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2016-01-14T13:09:44-08:00
---


Hi Pradheep -

How did you build basho\_bench? Which Erlang version?

--
Luke Bakken
Engineer
lbak...@basho.com


On Wed, Jan 6, 2016 at 2:56 PM, Pradheep s  wrote:
&gt; Hi,
&gt;
&gt; I run bash bench. i used riakc\_pb\_text.config in examples..
&gt;
&gt; put operation fails with below error:
&gt;
&gt; [error] Supervisor basho\_bench\_sup had child undefined started with
&gt; basho\_bench\_worker:start\_link(basho\_bench\_worker\_2, 2) at &lt;0.96.0&gt; exit with
&gt; reason normal in context child\_terminated
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; 17:50:14.297 [debug] Driver basho\_bench\_driver\_riakc\_pb crashed:
&gt; {function\_clause,[{riakc\_obj,build\_client\_object,[&lt;&lt;"bench"&gt;&gt;,"212",&lt;&lt;"ughts.
&gt; Was this\r\nconviction shaken by Phileas Fogg's return, or did he still
&gt; regard him\r\nas an exceedingly shrewd rascal, who, his journey round the
&gt; world completed,\r\nwould think himself absolutely safe in England? Perhaps
&gt; Fix's opinion\r\nof Phileas Fogg was somewhat modified; but he was
&gt; nevertheless resolved\r\nto do his duty, and to hasten the return of the
&gt; whole party to England\r\nas much as possible.\r\n\r\nAt eight o'clock the
&gt; sledge was ready to start. The passengers\r\ntook their places on it, and
&gt; wrapped themselves up closely\r\nin their travelling-cloaks. The two great
&gt; sails were hoisted,\r\nand under the pressure of the wind the sledge slid
&gt; over the hardened\r\nsnow with a velocity of forty miles an hour.\r\n\r\nThe
&gt; distance between Fort Kearney and Omaha, as the birds fly,\r\nis at most two
&gt; hundred miles. If the wind held good, the distance\r\nmight be traversed in
&gt; five hours; if no accident happened the sledge\r\nmight reach Omaha by one
&gt; o'clock.\r\n\r\nWhat a journey! The travellers, huddled
&gt; clos"&gt;&gt;],[{file,"src/riakc\_obj.erl"},{line,148}]},{riakc\_obj,new,4,[{file,"src/riakc\_obj.erl"},{line,138}]},{basho\_bench\_driver\_riakc\_pb,run,4,[{file,"src/basho\_bench\_driver\_riakc\_pb.erl"},{line,306}]},{basho\_bench\_worker,worker\_next\_op2,2,[{file,"src/basho\_bench\_worker.erl"},{line,252}]},{basho\_bench\_worker,worker\_next\_op,1,[{file,"src/basho\_bench\_worker.erl"},{line,258}]},{basho\_bench\_worker,max\_worker\_run\_loop,1,[{file,"src/basho\_bench\_worker.erl"},{line,338}]}]}
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Normal curl operation works fine.
&gt;
&gt; $ curl -v -d 'this is a new new test' -H "Content-Type: text/plain"
&gt; http://127.0.0.1:8098/riak/bench/test1.. this works fine.
&gt;
&gt; Any reason why it does not work?
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt;
&gt; Pradheep
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

