---
title: "Re: ubuntu package ERTS version issue"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-04-16T21:34:44-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10907"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg10906"
author_name: "N. Tucker"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-04-16T21:34:44-07:00
---


Yep, thanks a bunch. Just wanted to make sure it's reported somewhere.


On Tue, Apr 16, 2013 at 8:55 PM, Jared Morrow  wrote:

&gt; This is a known issue that will be fixed in any new packages, it has been
&gt; reported here https://github.com/basho/riak/issues/306
&gt;
&gt; I will also make a note to fix the README in the morning, sorry about the
&gt; confusion. We do have a lot of repos, so the safe bet is to file it
&gt; against github.com/basho/riak in the "Issues" tab, and if it belongs in
&gt; another repo someone at Basho will triage it into the right spot. Or, as
&gt; you did, write the mailing list.
&gt;
&gt; Sorry again for the troubles, the fix is to s/erts-5.7.5/erts-5.9.1/ as
&gt; you've already pointed out.
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; Jared
&gt;
&gt; On Tue, Apr 16, 2013 at 8:59 PM, N. Tucker &lt;
&gt; ntucker-ml-riak-us...@august20th.com&gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hello. I've just installed the riak ubuntu package using the
&gt;&gt; instructions here:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/tutorials/installation/Installing-on-Debian-and-Ubuntu/#Installing-From-Apt-Get
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; And the resulting /usr/lib/riak has an erts-5.9.1 directory, but the init
&gt;&gt; script installed in /etc/init.d/riak has a critical var defined as:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; ERTS\_PATH=/usr/lib/riak/erts-5.9.1/bin
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; The result is that none of the init script's "stop" and "restart"
&gt;&gt; operations fail since start-stop-daemon is looking for the wrong process
&gt;&gt; path.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Is this a known bug? I haven't had much luck searching for issues, as
&gt;&gt; I'm not sure which of the many, many repos on https://github.com/basho/might 
&gt;&gt; be relevant to this corner of the riak project.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; By the way, the README on https://github.com/basho/riak has a "how to
&gt;&gt; report bugs" section that sends you to the defunct bugzilla database which
&gt;&gt; sends you back to github.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

