---
title: "Re: performance"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-08-01T21:51:37-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11864"
author_name: "Alexander Sicular"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-08-01T21:51:37-07:00
---


Wait, wait, wait. You disabled Azure's automated NSA duplication layer, ya? Oh, 
right...

-Alexander Sicular

@siculars

NSA & Co.: If/when you knock down my door, give me a minute to put my pants on.

On Aug 1, 2013, at 9:28 PM, Paul Ingalls  wrote:

&gt; Couple of questions.
&gt; 
&gt; I have migrated my system to use Riak on the back end. I have setup a 1.4 
&gt; cluster with 128 partitions on 7 nodes with LevelDB as the store. Each node 
&gt; looks like:
&gt; 
&gt; Azure Large instance (4CPU 7GB RAM)
&gt; data directory is on a RAID 0
&gt; max files is set to 128
&gt; async thread on the VM is 16
&gt; everything else is defaults
&gt; 
&gt; I'm using the 1.4.1 java client, connecting via the protocol buffer cluster.
&gt; 
&gt; With this setup, I'm seeing poor throughput on my service load. I ran a test 
&gt; for a bit and was seeing only a few gets/puts per second. And then when I 
&gt; stopped the client two of the nodes crashed.
&gt; 
&gt; I'm very new with Riak, so I figure I'm doing something wrong. I saw a note 
&gt; on the list earlier of someone getting well over 1000 puts per second, so I 
&gt; know it can move pretty fast. 
&gt; 
&gt; What is a good strategy for troubleshooting?
&gt; 
&gt; How many fetch/update/store loops per second should I expect to see on a 
&gt; cluster of this size?
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks!
&gt; 
&gt; Paul
&gt; 
&gt; Paul Ingalls
&gt; Founder & CEO Fanzo
&gt; p...@fanzo.me
&gt; @paulingalls
&gt; http://www.linkedin.com/in/paulingalls
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

