---
title: "Re: Storing Photos in riak"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-03-24T10:46:37-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13906"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13900"
author_name: "Matthew Von-Maszewski"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-03-24T10:46:37-07:00
---


Ingo,

Maximum size involves more components of Riak than my specialty area of 
leveldb. So I did some asking around the engineering room. The word back is:

- 1M is a typical, recommended maximum,
- if you care about worst case latencies (tail latencies), should stay below 
100K
- if you really, really care about latencies, stay below 10K

Matthew


On Mar 24, 2014, at 12:44 PM, Ingo Rockel  
wrote:

&gt; Hi Matthew,
&gt; 
&gt; thanks for the Infos. What is the maximum size of objects which I can store 
&gt; into riak without the need of splitting them and without suffering from 
&gt; performance issues?
&gt; 
&gt; Best,
&gt; 
&gt; Ingo
&gt; 
&gt; Am 24.03.2014 13:55, schrieb Matthew Von-Maszewski:
&gt;&gt; Ingo,
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; We regularly test Riak and its leveldb backend with 130k objects as part of 
&gt;&gt; our performance and qualification tests. Works just fine.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; The one thing to remember is that with N=3 redundancy, the bandwidth between 
&gt;&gt; the nodes will approach 3 times the incoming user bandwidth. Make sure your 
&gt;&gt; network infrastructure is ready between your nodes (servers).
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; The 130K testing is based upon the loads created by one of our enterprise 
&gt;&gt; customers. You can read details of that use case here:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; http://media.basho.com/pdf/Voxer-Case-Study.pdf
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Matthew
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On Mar 24, 2014, at 7:22 AM, Ingo Rockel  
&gt;&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Hi List,
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; I'm currently evaluating the possibilities to migrate our mysql-based image 
&gt;&gt;&gt; storage to something which actually scales and is easier to maintain.
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Among different distributed file systems (like ceph, openstack swift) I was 
&gt;&gt;&gt; looking at riak as we already have a riak cluster for storing our users 
&gt;&gt;&gt; messages.
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; As we are only storing quite stripped down versions of our users photos, 
&gt;&gt;&gt; the average size of the photos is only about 30-40kb, there might be some 
&gt;&gt;&gt; above 100KB though. But all are less than 1MB.
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; As our objects are quite small and I don't need anything besides getting 
&gt;&gt;&gt; the binary for a key I want to use riak without riak CS. Is this a good or 
&gt;&gt;&gt; bad idea?
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; The current storage (which needs to be migrated) in MySQL has about 35 
&gt;&gt;&gt; million entries which consume 1.1TB of space.
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Any ideas or suggestions?
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Ingo
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt;&gt; Software Architect
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Blue Lion mobile GmbH
&gt;&gt;&gt; Tel. +49 (0) 221 788 797 14
&gt;&gt;&gt; Fax. +49 (0) 221 788 797 19
&gt;&gt;&gt; Mob. +49 (0) 176 24 87 30 89
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; ingo.roc...@bluelionmobile.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; qeep: Hefferwolf
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; www.bluelionmobile.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; www.qeep.net
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; -- 
&gt; Software Architect
&gt; 
&gt; Blue Lion mobile GmbH
&gt; Tel. +49 (0) 221 788 797 14
&gt; Fax. +49 (0) 221 788 797 19
&gt; Mob. +49 (0) 176 24 87 30 89
&gt; 
&gt; ingo.roc...@bluelionmobile.com
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; qeep: Hefferwolf
&gt; 
&gt; www.bluelionmobile.com
&gt; www.qeep.net


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

