---
title: "Re: Start up problem talking to Riak"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2017-02-13T06:41:11-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg17970"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg17965"
author_name: "Alex Moore"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2017-02-13T06:41:11-08:00
---


Hi David,

In your riak.conf files, what do the "listener.protobuf.internal" and
 "listener.http.internal" lines look like? Are they bound to "127.0.0.1:xxxx",
"0.0.0.0:xxxx", or the external ip address?

Thanks,
Alex

On Mon, Feb 13, 2017 at 5:00 AM, AWS  wrote:

&gt; I know that this isn't directly a Riak issue but I am sure that some of
&gt; you have met this before and can maybe help me. I am used to Macs and
&gt; Windows but have now set up an Ubuntu 14.04LTS server on my home network. I
&gt; have 5 fixed IP addresses so the server has its own external address. I
&gt; have opened port 8098 on my router to point at the server and checked that
&gt; ufw isn't running. I have tested with it running ufw and with 'allow 8098'
&gt; applied. I still cannot connect to Riak. On the same computer I get a pong
&gt; back to a ping so Riak seems to be OK.
&gt;
&gt; I have a Riak server running on AWS and had trouble setting that up until
&gt; I, eventually, opened all ports.
&gt;
&gt; Can anyone please suggest some steps that I might take? I need this
&gt; running for an Open University course that I am studying. My AWS free
&gt; server runs out before the course finishes so I have to get this up and
&gt; running soon.
&gt; Thanks in advance.
&gt; David
&gt;
&gt; ------------------------------
&gt;
&gt; Message sent using Winmail Mail Server
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

