---
title: "Re: Exploring Riak, need to confirm throughput"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-04-03T07:21:28-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10649"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg10643"
author_name: "Reid Draper"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-04-03T07:21:28-07:00
---


inline:


On Apr 2, 2013, at 6:48 PM, Matthew MacClary 
 wrote:

&gt; Hi all, I am new to this list. Thanks for taking the time to read my 
&gt; questions! I just want to know if the data throughput I am seeing is expected 
&gt; for the bitcask backend or if it is too low.
&gt; 
&gt; I am doing the preliminary feasibility study to decide if we should implement 
&gt; a Riak data store. Our application involves rendering chunks of data that 
&gt; range in size from about 1MB-9MB or so. This rendering work is CPU intensive 
&gt; so it is spread over a bunch of compute nodes which write the output into a 
&gt; data store.

Riak is not intended to store objects of this size, not at the moment anyway. 
Riak CS [1], on the other hand, can store files up to several TB. That being 
said, Riak CS may or may not have other qualities you desire. It's a known 
issue [2] that the Riak object size limitations should be better documented.

&gt; 
&gt; After rendering, a second process consumes that data chunks from the data 
&gt; store at a rate of about 480MB/s in a streaming configuration so there is &gt; 
&gt; 480MB/s of new data coming in at the same time the data is being read.

Is this a single-socket, or is there some concurrency here?

&gt; 
&gt; My testing so far involves a one node cluster on a dev box. What I wanted to 
&gt; show is that Riak writes were limited by the hard disk throughput. So far I 
&gt; haven't seen writes to localhost come anywhere close to the hard disk 
&gt; throughput:
&gt; 
&gt; $ MYFILE=/tmp/output.png
&gt; $ dd if=/dev/zero of=$MYFILE bs=8k count=256k
&gt; 262144+0 records in
&gt; 262144+0 records out
&gt; 2147483648 bytes (2.1 GB) copied, 4.48906 seconds, 478 MB/s
&gt; $ rm $MYFILE
&gt; 
&gt; So the hard disk throughput is around 478MB/s for this simple write test.
&gt; 
&gt; The next test I did was to load a 39MB binary file into my one node cluster. 
&gt; I used a script to do 12 POSTs with curl and 12 POSTSs with wget. 
&gt; 
&gt; curl --tcp-nodelay -XPOST http://${IP}:${PORT}/riak/test/file3 \
&gt; -H "Content-Type:application/octet-stream" \
&gt; --data-binary @${UPLOAD\_FILE} \
&gt; --write-out "%{speed\_upload}\n"
&gt; 
&gt; wget --post-file ${UPLOAD\_FILE} http://127.0.0.1:8098/riak/test/file1
&gt; 
&gt; What I found was that I could get only about 26MB/s with this command line 
&gt; testing. Does this seam about right? Should I see an 18x slow down over the 
&gt; write speed of the disk drive?

Was this running the 24 (12 \* 2) uploads in serial or parallel? With a 
single-threaded workload, you're unlikely to get Riak to be able to saturate a 
disk. Furthermore, there are design decisions in Riak at the moment that make 
it less than optimal for single objects of 39MB. Single-object high throughput 
(measured in MB) is more in the wheelhouse of Riak CS than Riak on it's own, 
which is primarily designed for low-latency and high-throughput (measured in 
ops/sec). One of the ways that Riak CS achieves this on top of Riak is by 
introducing concurrency between the end-user and Riak.

&gt; 
&gt; Thanks for your comments on my application and test approach!

Hope this helps,
Reid

[1] http://docs.basho.com/riakcs/latest/
[2] https://github.com/basho/basho\_docs/issues/256


&gt; 
&gt; -Matt
&gt; 
&gt; -----------------------------------------------
&gt; Dev Environment Details:
&gt; dev box running RHEL6.2, 12 cores, 48GB, 6Gb/s SAS 15k HD
&gt; Riak 1.2.1 from 
&gt; http://downloads.basho.com.s3-website-us-east-1.amazonaws.com/riak/1.2/1.2.1/rhel/5/riak-1.2.1-1.el5.x86\_64.rpm
&gt; n\_val=1
&gt; r=1
&gt; w=1
&gt; backend=bitcask
&gt; 
&gt; Deploy Environment Details:
&gt; Node to node bandwidth &gt; 40Gb/s
&gt; similar config for node servers
&gt; n\_val=3
&gt; r=1
&gt; w=1
&gt; backend=?
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

