---
title: "Re: Beginners performance problem"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-02-22T14:10:27-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10214"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg10209"
author_name: "Lars J. Nilsson"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-02-22T14:10:27-08:00
---


Sorry, yes. I've used anything from single threads to one thread per
"actor". Including anything from one connection to one per process, and
pooling, etc.

/Lars J. Nilsson
[sent from my mobile]
Den 22 feb 2013 19:49 skrev "Sean Cribbs" :

&gt; Use multiple threads in your Java program to parallelize the writes.
&gt;
&gt; On Fri, Feb 22, 2013 at 9:40 AM, Lars J. Nilsson
&gt;  wrote:
&gt; &gt; Hi Sean,
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Thanks for pipjng in. And how do I do that?
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Cheers
&gt; &gt; /Lars J. Nilsson
&gt; &gt; Executive VP, Cubeia Ltd
&gt; &gt; +46 (0) 704 / 10 69 53
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; On 22 February 2013 16:28, Sean Cribbs  wrote:
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; Given iostat says ~10% utilization, I would suggest increasing the
&gt; &gt;&gt; concurrency of your writes. It's obviously not using up the capacity
&gt; &gt;&gt; of the disk, your bottleneck is elsewhere. 2MB/sec is low for any
&gt; &gt;&gt; commodity hardware.
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; On Fri, Feb 22, 2013 at 9:21 AM, Lars J. Nilsson
&gt; &gt;&gt;  wrote:
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; Hi all,
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; I'm micro-testing a simple update pattern (key + short json document)
&gt; on
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; my
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; local workstation (8 core intel CPU, 8 gig of RAM, 10K disk) to get
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; baseline
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; before moving to cluster on AWS. With Riak I get about 60 mods/s
&gt; before
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; maxing out (as compared to approx 3000 mods/s on a vanilla MySQL using
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; exactly the same code).
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; It feels like I must be doing something hideously wrong. (For the
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; record,
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; I'm a decent Java programmer but a riak/erlang n00b).
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; Riak is installed via a vanilla Ununtu 12.04 package as described in
&gt; the
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; docs. The test ran on the same disk as the mentioned MySQL test. The
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; same
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; Java code was doing both tests (just a DAO swapped).
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; The bucket was using n\_val = 1.
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; The problem seems to be in high disk-writing, despite the low load.
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; Here's
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; what iostat says during the run:
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; [...]
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; wrqm/s : 434.50
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; w/s: 182.90
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; wkB/s: 2618.00
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; avgrq-sz: 28.63
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; [...]
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; %util: 10.60
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; Which seems to be too much considering the small load (the stored JSON
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; blobs
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; are roughly 1K each).
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; I'm using the official PB Java client.
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; This is an evaluation for a customer. Any hint of what I'm missing or
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; what
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; the problem could be would be appreciated.
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; Cheers
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; /Lars J. Nilsson
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; Executive VP, Cubeia Ltd
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; +46 (0) 704 / 10 69 53
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; --
&gt; &gt;&gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt; &gt;&gt; Software Engineer
&gt; &gt;&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; &gt;&gt; http://basho.com/
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt; Software Engineer
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; http://basho.com/
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

