---
title: "Re: Java client - Bug with ifNotModified?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-06-10T11:46:29-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11245"
author_name: "Brian Roach"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-06-10T11:46:29-07:00
---


With protocol buffers this is the case.

The ifNotModified() method expects you to supply a vector clock which
is then matched against the vector clock of an existing object in Riak
with that key. Since there is no object in riak ... it returns
"notfound" - it can't find it.

Unfortunately that makes your situation somewhat difficult to handle
all in one go using the StoreObject.

What I woud suggest is doing a fetch first then do the store with the
withoutFetch() option.

In the case where the fetch returned nothing, do your store of your
new object with the ifNoneMatch() option if it's possible another
writer created it between your fetch and store.

In the case where the fetch returned an object, use the
ifNotModified() since you have the vclock.

- Roach

On Sat, May 25, 2013 at 8:21 PM, Y N  wrote:
&gt; I am using ifNotModified and am running into a weird situation.
&gt;
&gt; I am using the following API:
&gt;
&gt; return bucket.store(key, new
&gt; MyObject()).withMutator(mutator).withConverter(converter).ifNotModified(true).returnBody(true).execute();
&gt;
&gt; The problem I run into is that I get a not found exception when there is no
&gt; existing object in Riak for the specified key. If I change ifNotModified to
&gt; false, then it works as expected. I am allocating a new object in my mutator
&gt; if there is no existing object from the fetch cycle. Note, this is with the
&gt; default bucket settings.
&gt;
&gt; My expectation was that even with ifNotModified set to true, this should
&gt; succeed if there is no existing object in Riak matching the key (hence,
&gt; nothing has been modified and the store should succeed).
&gt;
&gt; Please clarify the behavior of the API.
&gt;
&gt; Thanks.

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

