---
title: "Re: Riak bind to hostname instead of IP Address!!"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-04-30T00:13:52-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16087"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16086"
author_name: "Alex De la rosa"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-04-30T00:13:52-07:00
---


You really don't want to do that... In the past, when using PostgreSQL and
binding it to a subdomain like db.yourdomain.com (just for not having to
remember IPs, even it doesn't really matter in code-level) I
had experienced randomly and unexpectedly very slow timings and even
disconnections for quite some painful time just because DNS servers between
were having issues, etc... Using an IP address will never incur in this
kind of issue as no hostname translations has to be performed.

I don't see any benefit for doing so. Just use IPs and forget about DNS
related issues.

Alex

On Thu, Apr 30, 2015 at 9:05 AM, Praveen Baratam 
wrote:

&gt; Just to clarify... I was referring to...
&gt;
&gt; Is it legal to bind Riak to a hostname instead of IP?
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Yes, it's legal but it will incur the overhead of the lookup. If you're
&gt; talking about the HTTP/PBC interfaces, it's best to use IP addresses, but
&gt; for the node name, it's totally fine to use a hostname.
&gt; Will it be a significant overhead? I believe the it will just be a
&gt; function call after the initial lookup rather than a network call.
&gt;
&gt; Praveen
&gt; ᐧ
&gt;
&gt; On Wed, Apr 29, 2015 at 12:40 AM, Praveen Baratam &lt;
&gt; praveen.bara...@gmail.com&gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hello All,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I found it on the FAQ that using hostnames instead of IP addresses will
&gt;&gt; incur a overhead! Will it be a significant overhead? I believe that if a
&gt;&gt; hostname is queried during startup, the same will be used through the life
&gt;&gt; of the VM or in an optimized case till the DNS TTL expires!!
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Best,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Praveen Baratam
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; about.me 
&gt;&gt; ᐧ
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Dr. Praveen Baratam
&gt;
&gt; about.me 
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

