---
title: "Re: Seeking Backup solution for live nodes"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2016-09-26T07:09:06-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg17670"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg17668"
author_name: "DeadZen"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2016-09-26T07:09:06-07:00
---


there a backup tool that uses this yet? or is this meant more to be used
with snapshots provided through xfs/zfs?

On Monday, September 26, 2016, Matthew Von-Maszewski 
wrote:

&gt; Here are notes on the new hot backup:
&gt;
&gt; https://github.com/basho/leveldb/wiki/mv-hot-backup
&gt;
&gt; This sound like what you need?
&gt;
&gt; Matthew
&gt;
&gt; Sent from my iPad
&gt;
&gt; &gt; On Sep 26, 2016, at 5:39 AM, Niels Christian Sorensen &lt;
&gt; n...@corporateencryption.com &gt; wrote:
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Hi,
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; We use Riak-kv Enterprise Edition as base for Riak CS to store files in.
&gt; Each customer has a separate bucket in the cluster(s) and all data is
&gt; stored multi site in 3 copies. Thus the "i lost a node" situation is fully
&gt; covered.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; I need however, a solution for providing customers with a "single
&gt; instance" backup of their data.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; I am aware of the possibility of tar, cp, scp, what-ever-copy of the
&gt; data - but this require me to take system off-line according to this:
&gt; &gt; https://docs.basho.com/riak/kv/2.1.4/using/cluster-
&gt; operations/backing-up/
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Also I would still have to restore all customers data (and all involved
&gt; nodes) - this is not trivial!
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Also I realize that the "riak-admin backup" is deprecated and should be
&gt; avoided - It seemed like an easy solution to my problem but....
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; The s3cmd will allow me to pull out the data and I could most likely
&gt; write a fantastic automatic script based system to use this - I do not have
&gt; the time for that and are therefor looking for a commercial or "pre-build -
&gt; adjustable" solution that will allow me to pull out a single copy of all
&gt; data stored in a bucket and keep it elsewhere.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Any ideas / solutions / quotes (as external consultant) on a solution to
&gt; this problem?
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; A plan for recovery is obviously also needed ;-)
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Thanks in advance
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; /Christian
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com 
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com 
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

