---
title: "Re: Deleting data / content from a key - will it trigger compaction?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-09-13T06:23:36-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12257"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12255"
author_name: "Matthew Von-Maszewski"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-09-13T06:23:36-07:00
---


Timo,

Here are some rough concepts of leveldb:

- Compaction in leveldb is triggered by input activity, not by key age or key 
delete. 
- A key delete does not actually delete a key, it creates a "tombstone".
- Old values of a key only get purged if two versions of the key happen to 
participate in the same compaction. Then the oldest is dropped.

Therefore, it is not easy to estimate the length of time before all your 1 to 
3Mb objects purge. They will purge and free up disk space eventually … but not 
necessarily quickly. There is currently no means for a user to initiate 
targeted compactions to address your situation. You will just have to wait.

Matthew


On Sep 13, 2013, at 2:14 AM, Timo Gatsonides  wrote:

&gt; 
&gt; I'm running a database where the values are typically fairly large (1-3Mb). 
&gt; Now I'm planning to remove older data (&gt;1 year ago) by moving it into Glacier 
&gt; and only keeping some metadata in the database. I am currently planning to 
&gt; remove the content of any K/V itself (object.raw\_data in the Ruby client) and 
&gt; setting some Meta tags as to where the data is stored in Glacier and the 
&gt; encryption keys for retrieval and decryption if the data is ever needed.
&gt; 
&gt; Now my question is: will this trigger a compaction in LevelDB? If so, when 
&gt; will it trigger? Is there some way to monitor this, is there for example a 
&gt; specific log entry when compaction is triggered?
&gt; 
&gt; Or will it maybe only trigger if the key is completely removed, then I'll 
&gt; simply save the metadata to another key, e.g. append "-removed" to the key or 
&gt; in another bucket?
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks for any feedback,
&gt; Timo
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

