---
title: "Re: Build Riak wirh Erlang 18"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-11-17T10:57:02-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16787"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16786"
author_name: "Victor Medina"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-11-17T10:57:02-08:00
---


=) thanks for the support!

Currently I'm just starting to develop and mock up things.
Its building just fine on OTP17 so far. Guess I can wait until support for
OTP18 is official.

Thanks again!

2015-11-17 14:18 GMT-04:30 John Daily :

&gt; One of our engineers has been working on 18 for a while now. He’s not
&gt; around today, but hopefully will chime in soon.
&gt;
&gt; -John
&gt;
&gt; On Nov 17, 2015, at 1:45 PM, Victor Medina 
&gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt; =)first of all thanks!
&gt;
&gt; Im building it with OTP17. Everything seems to be just fine with 17 so
&gt; far...
&gt; Things is Im building an app with OTP18, and I'll have to deliver it with
&gt; two OTP versions, not big deal...just wanted to deliver one OTP to support!
&gt;
&gt; For instance: elixir is not building with 17 anymore... =/
&gt;
&gt; 2015-11-17 14:08 GMT-04:30 Luke Bakken :
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi Victor,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Riak ships with OTP compiled from this tag:
&gt;&gt; https://github.com/basho/otp/tree/OTP\_R16B02\_basho8
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I believe the next version of Riak will use the OTP\_R16B02\_basho9 tag.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I doubt Riak will compile successfully using version 18. I can say that
&gt;&gt; Riak has not been tested with that version.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; Luke Bakken
&gt;&gt; Engineer
&gt;&gt; lbak...@basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Tue, Nov 17, 2015 at 9:28 AM, Victor Medina &lt;
&gt;&gt; victor.med...@cibersys.com&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Hi guys!
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Probably its and old issue, but can I build Riak with OTP18?
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Thanks.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Víctor E. Medina M.
&gt;&gt;&gt; Platform Architect / Chief Infrastructure
&gt;&gt;&gt; +58424 291 4561
&gt;&gt;&gt; BB #79A8AFA2
&gt;&gt;&gt; @VMCibersys
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Víctor E. Medina M.
&gt; Platform Architect / Chief Infrastructure
&gt; +58424 291 4561
&gt; BB #79A8AFA2
&gt; @VMCibersys
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;


-- 



Víctor E. Medina M.
Platform Architect / Chief Infrastructure
+58424 291 4561
BB #79A8AFA2
@VMCibersys
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

