---
title: "Re: Put failure: too many siblings"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2016-06-03T08:44:29-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg17451"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg17449"
author_name: "Luke Bakken"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2016-06-03T08:44:29-07:00
---


Hi Vladyslav,

If you recognize the full name of the object raising the sibling
warning, it is most likely a manifest object. Sometimes, during hinted
handoff, you can see these messages. They should resolve after handoff
completes.

Please see the documentation for the transfer-limit command as well:

http://docs.basho.com/riak/kv/2.1.4/using/admin/riak-admin/#transfer-limit

--
Luke Bakken
Engineer
lbak...@basho.com


On Fri, Jun 3, 2016 at 2:55 AM, Vladyslav Zakhozhai
 wrote:
&gt; Hi.
&gt;
&gt; I have a trouble with PUT to Riak CS cluster. During this process I
&gt; periodically see the following message in Riak error.log:
&gt;
&gt; 2016-06-03 11:15:55.201 [error]
&gt; &lt;0.15536.142&gt;@riak\_kv\_vnode:encode\_and\_put:2253 Put failure: too many
&gt; siblings for object OBJECT\_NAME (101)
&gt;
&gt; and also
&gt;
&gt; 2016-06-03 12:41:50.678 [error]
&gt; &lt;0.20448.515&gt;@riak\_api\_pb\_server:handle\_info:331 Unrecognized message
&gt; {7345880,{error,{too\_many\_siblings,101}}}
&gt;
&gt; Here OBJECT\_NAME - is the name of object in Riak which has too many
&gt; siblings.
&gt;
&gt; I definitely sure that this objects are static. Nobody deletes is, nobody
&gt; rewrites it. I have no idea why more than 100 siblings of this object
&gt; occurs.
&gt;
&gt; The following effect of this issue occurs:
&gt;
&gt; Great amount of keys are loaded to RAM. I almost out of RAM (Do each sibling
&gt; has it own key or key duplicate?).
&gt; Nodes are slow - adding new nodes are too slow
&gt; Presence of "too many siblings" affects ownership handoffs
&gt;
&gt; So I have several questions:
&gt;
&gt; Do hinted or ownership handoffs can affect siblings count (I mean can
&gt; siblings be created during ownership of hinted handoffs)
&gt; Is there any workaround of this issue. Do I need remove siblings manually or
&gt; it removes during merges, read repairs and so on
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; My configuration:
&gt;
&gt; riak from basho's packages - 2.1.3-1
&gt; riak cs from basho's packages - 2.1.0-1
&gt; 24 riak/riak-cs nodes
&gt; 32 GB RAM per node
&gt; AAE is disabled
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; I appreciate you help.
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

