---
title: "Re: Mecking riakc_pb_socket:get/3"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-11-16T18:42:52-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16774"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16725"
author_name: "Shunichi Shinohara"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-11-16T18:42:52-08:00
---


Hi Michael,

Sorry for very late response.
I tried mecking the module in erl shell.
In list passing style for expected arguments, Pid in call should
be the same term you passed in expect call, unless function\_clause
is thrown.

&gt; Pid = self().
&lt;0.43.0&gt;
&gt; meck:expect(riakc\_pb\_socket, get, [Pid, {&lt;&lt;"t"&gt;&gt;, &lt;&lt;"b"&gt;&gt;}, &lt;&lt;"k"&gt;&gt;], {ok, 
&gt; dummy}).
&gt; riakc\_pb\_socket:get(Pid, {&lt;&lt;"t"&gt;&gt;, &lt;&lt;"b"&gt;&gt;}, &lt;&lt;"k"&gt;&gt;).
{ok,dummy}
&gt; Pid2 = spawn(fun() -&gt; receive forever -&gt; ok end end).
&lt;0.57.0&gt;
&gt; riakc\_pb\_socket:get(Pid2, {&lt;&lt;"t"&gt;&gt;, &lt;&lt;"b"&gt;&gt;}, &lt;&lt;"k"&gt;&gt;).
\*\* exception error: function\_clause

If you do not want to match the first argument, fun style can be used.

9&gt; meck:expect(riakc\_pb\_socket, get, fun(\_Pid, {&lt;&lt;"t"&gt;&gt;, &lt;&lt;"b"&gt;&gt;},
&lt;&lt;"k"&gt;&gt;) -&gt; {ok, dummy} end).
10&gt; riakc\_pb\_socket:get(Pid2, {&lt;&lt;"t"&gt;&gt;, &lt;&lt;"b"&gt;&gt;}, &lt;&lt;"k"&gt;&gt;).
{ok,dummy}
11&gt; riakc\_pb\_socket:get(not\_actually\_pid, {&lt;&lt;"t"&gt;&gt;, &lt;&lt;"b"&gt;&gt;}, &lt;&lt;"k"&gt;&gt;).
{ok,dummy}

Thanks,
Shino

2015-11-03 0:22 GMT+09:00 Michael Martin :
&gt; Hi all,
&gt;
&gt; I'm trying to meck riakc\_pb\_socket:get/3 in my eunit tests, and consistently
&gt; get a function\_clause error.
&gt;
&gt; The meck:expect looks like:
&gt;
&gt; meck:expect(riakc\_pb\_socket, get, [Pid, ?RIAK\_TYPE\_AND\_BUCKET, ?TestOid],
&gt; {ok, ?TestRiakObject}),
&gt;
&gt; where Pid is a pid, the macro ?RIAK\_TYPE\_AND\_BUCKET evaluates to
&gt; {&lt;&lt;"buckettype"&gt;&gt;, &lt;&lt;"bucketname"&gt;&gt;},
&gt; and ?TestOid evalutes to
&gt; &lt;&lt;"809876fd89ac405680b7251c2e57faa30004524100486220"&gt;&gt;).
&gt;
&gt; With the exception of the Pid, the other arguments, as well as the expected
&gt; response, are taken from a live,
&gt; running system, where the call to riakc\_pb\_socket:get/3 works as expected.
&gt;
&gt; Looking at the source for riakc\_pb\_socket:get/3, I see that the -spec looks
&gt; like:
&gt;
&gt; -spec get(pid(), bucket(), key()) -&gt; {ok, riakc\_obj()} | {error, term()}.
&gt;
&gt; and the types bucket() and key() are defined as:
&gt; -type bucket() :: binary(). %% A bucket name.
&gt; -type key() :: binary(). %% A key name.
&gt;
&gt; In reality, when using bucket types, shouldn't the bucket() type be a tuple?
&gt; At any rate, changing it
&gt; to tuple() didn't help my case any.
&gt;
&gt; Can anyone show me an example of a working meck:expect for
&gt; riakc\_pb\_socket:get/3?
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; Michael
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

