---
title: "Re: Problem with Solr Search"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2017-04-01T14:03:58-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg18117"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg18113"
author_name: "Fred Dushin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2017-04-01T14:03:58-07:00
---



&gt; On Mar 30, 2017, at 12:58 AM, Nguyễn Văn Nghĩa Em  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; I have met some problems:
&gt; 1. Create search index with error: "Can not create search index on all 
&gt; nodes". This error appear after 30 seconds timeout. I opened the index folder 
&gt; in /var/lib/riak/yz, I found that there are some folder without 
&gt; core.properties file. I don't know whether it is normal or not.

Need to get to the bottom of this, before doing any performance testing. If 
you don't have an search index on a node, you will not get reliable search 
results.

I would check to make sure Solr is running properly on the nodes on which you 
are not finding the index. If you look at the logic for creating a local index 
[1], you should see some checks to see if the index is in metadata or on disk. 
You should see some entries in the logs that will show either success or errors 
on creation. Check the error logs, to ensure you are not getting errors 
communicating with Solr.

Also, note that 2.1.1 is fairly old. Significant improvement with batching and 
asynchronous writes to Solr were added in Riak 2.2, and the latest release of 
the 2.2 branch is 2.2.2.

-Fred

[1] https://github.com/basho/yokozuna/blob/2.1.0/src/yz\_index.erl#L193


&gt; 
&gt; 2. When I make a searching load test with Riak Benchmark tool with about 1000 
&gt; Request Per second. I see about 5-10% error which relate to "Failed to 
&gt; search". But when I make a load test with Solr HTTP API, the throuput is 
&gt; about 2000 Request Per Second without any error. It may be the problem in 
&gt; Riak config. I hope someone can show me why this error happend

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

