---
title: "Re: Riak Search and custom Solr components"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2016-05-31T10:10:16-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg17436"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg17434"
author_name: "Luke Bakken"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2016-05-31T10:10:16-07:00
---


Hi Steve and Guillaume -

If you subscribe to this GitHub issue you can provide input and follow
progress on improving access to solrconfig.xml:
https://github.com/basho/yokozuna/issues/537

You might be able to restart a Solr core via the HTTP /solr endpoint -
that may be easier than restarting all of Riak.

--
Luke Bakken
Engineer
lbak...@basho.com

On Tue, May 31, 2016 at 8:54 AM, Steve Garon  wrote:
&gt; Hey Guillaume,
&gt;
&gt; We had to alter the solrconfig.xml in our deployment because the default
&gt; solrconfig.xml does not give good search throughput with a large amount of
&gt; documents updating often. I've opened a ticket at basho to get the
&gt; solrconfig.xml save into the buckets settings that way they would be the
&gt; same across the cluster. I'm not sure when and if they'll have it in. I
&gt; guess the more ppl that ask for this, the sooner we'll get it.
&gt;
&gt; In the meantime, what we did is that during our riak node installation
&gt; procedure, we create the index using curl then we override the
&gt; solrconfig.xml and then restart riak which in turn restarts solr. From then,
&gt; the solrconfig.xml should remain intact. There is one more thing though.
&gt; Sometimes, for unknown reasons, riak decides to recreate the solrconfig.xml.
&gt; So you might wanna have a script that runs on the node to validate the
&gt; solrconfig.xml has not changed and to fix it automatically if it does.
&gt;
&gt; I know this is not ideal, solrconfig.xml really needs to be saved in bucket
&gt; settings like the schema.xml. Lets just hope the Basho works on fixing this
&gt; ASAP because for big deployments this is kind of crutial.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Steve
&gt;
&gt; On 30 May 2016 at 13:18, Guillaume Boddaert
&gt;  wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Please allow me to bump this previous message that was sent late last
&gt;&gt; friday and that didn't attract much attention due to a well deserved
&gt;&gt; week-end.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On 27/05/2016 19:14, Guillaume Boddaert wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi there,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I'm currently testing custom Component in my Riak Search system. As I need
&gt;&gt; a suggestion mechanism from the Solr index, I implemented the Suggester
&gt;&gt; component (https://wiki.apache.org/solr/Suggester).
&gt;&gt; It seems to work correctly, yet I have some question regarding the usage
&gt;&gt; of custom Solr configuration inside of Riak. The only caveat is that Riak
&gt;&gt; commits too often and that the suggestion index must be build manually and
&gt;&gt; not on commit. That's fine for me, i'll cron that once per day.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; First of all, how do stop/start/reload the solr instance without
&gt;&gt; disturbing the Riak core ? For the time being I'm stuck with service
&gt;&gt; start/stop. How can I reload my solr cores configuration without stopping
&gt;&gt; riak ?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Secondly, is that a good pattern to start tweaking defaults from my solr
&gt;&gt; cores (solrconfig.xml) ? Should I stop that right now and consider to use a
&gt;&gt; distinct Solr instance if I require those modifications ? Or should I
&gt;&gt; consider safe to alter cache/performance settings as well for Solr to match
&gt;&gt; my needs ? Can I play with other solr files such as stopwords and stuff like
&gt;&gt; that ?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Finally, is there a proper way to alter default solrconfig.xml ? It is
&gt;&gt; auto-generated at index creation by Riak, yet that's a BIG and complex file
&gt;&gt; that may evolve between Riak releases. I'm creating indexes programatically
&gt;&gt; sending my index through Riak interface ( RiakClient.create\_search\_index in
&gt;&gt; Riak Python lib), but if I start to alter configuration I guess I need more
&gt;&gt; than that.
&gt;&gt; How do you guys would handle this ?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Guillaume
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

