---
title: "Re: Upgrading from 1.2.1 to 2.1.1"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-06-19T06:36:06-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16256"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16177"
author_name: "Matthew Brender"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-06-19T06:36:06-07:00
---


Hi Konstantin,

Please take the delay in response as a :+1: to you being prepared.
Based on your description, the main highlight I see from the reference
material is around the use of app.config [1]:

"If you are using LevelDB and upgrading to 2.0, no special steps need
to be taken, unless you wish to use your old app.config file for
configuration. If so, make sure that you set the
total\_leveldb\_mem\_percent parameter in the eleveldb section of the
file to 70."

There are further considerations for upgrading search, which are all
outlined on that page. Keep us posted on how it goes!

[1] http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/upgrade-v20/#Upgrading-LevelDB



Matt Brender | Developer Advocacy Lead
Basho Technologies
t: @mjbrender



On Tue, Jun 2, 2015 at 5:46 PM, Konstantin Kalin
 wrote:
&gt; I read it already. I just wanted to confirm sequence of rolling upgrades.
&gt; Did I get it right?
&gt;
&gt; Thank you,
&gt; Konstantin
&gt;
&gt; On Jun 2, 2015 2:12 PM, "Matthew Brender"  wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi Konstantin,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; A good deal of detail should be considered as you upgrade. The
&gt;&gt; additional recommendations are outlined in the documentation here:
&gt;&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/upgrade-v20/
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks to CMJ for reminding me of these details.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Matt Brender | Developer Advocacy Lead
&gt;&gt; Basho Technologies
&gt;&gt; t: @mjbrender
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Mon, Jun 1, 2015 at 12:55 PM, Konstantin Kalin
&gt;&gt;  wrote:
&gt;&gt; &gt; Just want to check if I understand the documentation correctly. In order
&gt;&gt; &gt; to
&gt;&gt; &gt; upgrade my cluster I from version 1.2.1 to 2.1.1 I need to do two steps
&gt;&gt; &gt; of
&gt;&gt; &gt; the rolling upgrade:
&gt;&gt; &gt; 1) 1.2.1 -&gt;1.4.12
&gt;&gt; &gt; 2) 1.4.12 -&gt; 2.1.1
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; Is it correct?
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; I'm using only bitcask backend only and I think one bucket has about
&gt;&gt; &gt; 200Millions keys. Any additional recommendations ?
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; Thank you,
&gt;&gt; &gt; Konstantin.
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; &gt;

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

