---
title: "Re: Yokozuna 0.8.0 release on omnios - no Yokozuna, no Riak Control"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-08-14T15:56:46-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12040"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12039"
author_name: "Dave Martorana"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-08-14T15:56:46-07:00
---


Hi Chris,

I've built from the "official" Yokozuna 0.8.0 download, as well
as rz-yz-merge-1.4.0 and rz-yz-merge-master branches off of the riak repo.

When I build from master, Riak Control works fine.

Thanks!

Dave


On Wed, Aug 14, 2013 at 6:52 PM, Christopher Meiklejohn &lt;
cmeiklej...@basho.com&gt; wrote:

&gt; Hi Dave,
&gt;
&gt; Can you provide the tag, or SHA, that you've built Riak from?
&gt;
&gt; - Chris
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Christopher Meiklejohn
&gt; Software Engineer
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Wednesday, August 14, 2013 at 3:45 PM, Dave Martorana wrote:
&gt;
&gt; &gt; Hi all,
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; I have Riak building on omnios, with Erlang R15B02, and Oracle JDK
&gt; 1.7.0\_25.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Everything appears to be building just fine. However... even though I
&gt; have Yokozuna and Riak Control enabled in my app.config, neither are able
&gt; to be used or - it seems - start up. I can confirm that kv is working fine.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; app.config: https://gist.github.com/themartorana/eb503f1d7fca798fc6c3
&gt; &gt; console.log: https://gist.github.com/themartorana/7c517c0ba5549c35540a
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Oddly, console.log doesn't show any mention of Riak Control. It does
&gt; show the startup line for Solr at the end. However, the webapp only has the
&gt; following links:
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; riak\_kv\_wm\_buckets
&gt; &gt; riak\_kv\_wm\_buckets
&gt; &gt; riak\_kv\_wm\_counter
&gt; &gt; riak\_kv\_wm\_index
&gt; &gt; riak\_kv\_wm\_keylist
&gt; &gt; riak\_kv\_wm\_link\_walker
&gt; &gt; riak\_kv\_wm\_link\_walker
&gt; &gt; riak\_kv\_wm\_mapred
&gt; &gt; riak\_kv\_wm\_object
&gt; &gt; riak\_kv\_wm\_object
&gt; &gt; riak\_kv\_wm\_ping
&gt; &gt; riak\_kv\_wm\_props
&gt; &gt; riak\_kv\_wm\_stats
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; There is no admin/control, and no yz. Any attempt to link to /yz/\* or
&gt; /admin results in a 404.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; I'm at a bit of a loss. There is nothing in error.log or crash.log.
&gt; yokozuna.jar builds fine. Riak Control appears to be built fine.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Any thoughts?
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Cheers,
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Dave
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; P.S. - I have also built the git rz-yz-merge-1.4.0 branch of the riak
&gt; repo on github just to be sure. Same result. Building Riak from master -
&gt; while obviously not having Yokozuna - does have Riak Control enabled.
&gt; Thanks!
&gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

