---
title: "Re: Secondary indexes or Riak search ?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2017-02-13T04:06:35-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg17967"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg17966"
author_name: "Russell Brown"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2017-02-13T04:06:35-08:00
---


Hi Alex,
A quick look at riak\_test it seems that the `return\_body` parameter is 
generally supported for both HTTP and PB now. I wasn’t aware of that.

This test exercises the API.

https://github.com/basho/riak\_test/blob/develop/tests/verify\_2i\_returnbody.erl

The `ref` returned from the link I gave you is a way to correlate messages 
received with the query. If you have a look at the code in the test here 

https://github.com/basho/riak\_test/blob/develop/tests/secondary\_index\_tests.erl#L204

You can get an idea of the general pattern. I guess line 227

https://github.com/basho/riak\_test/blob/develop/tests/secondary\_index\_tests.erl#L227

Is the pertinent one for you.

Cheers

Russell

On 13 Feb 2017, at 11:08, Alex Feng  wrote:

&gt; Hi Russell,
&gt; 
&gt; We have tried this, but it returns a reference(some number) only. We have 
&gt; googled and haven't found any clue about how to use this API.
&gt; The API user guide doesn't say much about the "reference". What is the next 
&gt; step with the returned reference ?
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; cs\_bucket\_fold(Pid::pid(), Bucket::bucket() | bucket\_and\_type(), 
&gt; Opts::cs\_opts()) -&gt; {ok, reference()} | {error, term()}
&gt; secret function, do not use, or I come to your house and keeel you.
&gt; 
&gt; cs\_opt() = {timeout, timeout()} | {continuation, binary()} | {max\_results, 
&gt; non\_neg\_integer() | all} | {start\_key, binary()} | {start\_incl, boolean()} | 
&gt; {end\_key, binary()} | {end\_incl, boolean()}
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; Br,
&gt; Alex
&gt; 
&gt; 2017-02-13 16:34 GMT+08:00 Russell Brown :
&gt; If you look at the riak-erlang-client here 
&gt; https://github.com/basho/riak-erlang-client/blob/develop/src/riakc\_pb\_socket.erl#L1129
&gt; there is a client API call that was implemented for CS (riak s2, or whatever 
&gt; it is called, the large object store thingy that basho had) that will use the 
&gt; $keys index, but in the back end calls fold\_objects rather than fold\_keys on 
&gt; eleveldb, and so returns the whole object. NOTE: this is equivalent to r=1, 
&gt; you don’t get a quorum read here, but a single vnode per-value only. I don’t 
&gt; know if other clients added this API, but it would not be hard to add to any 
&gt; client that supports 2i. Like I say, originally it was for riakCS, but it’s 
&gt; open source and part of the release for 4 years now, so hardly a secret.
&gt; 
&gt; Cheers
&gt; 
&gt; Russell
&gt; 
&gt; On 13 Feb 2017, at 06:18, Alex Feng  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; &gt; Hi Russell,
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; In your reply, you mentioned this,
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt;&gt; There is also the feature that can return the actual riak objects for a 
&gt; &gt; &gt;&gt; $keys index search,
&gt; &gt; &gt;&gt;You can pack the index terms with data and return the terms in a query so 
&gt; &gt; &gt;&gt;that you don’t need a further object fetch (see &gt;&gt;return\_terms in docs.)
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; If I understood correctly, it is possible to fetch object (value) by 2i in 
&gt; &gt; one time. But, we have tried using "return\_term = true", it returns the 
&gt; &gt; index with key comparing only key when not using "return\_term=true". It 
&gt; &gt; doesn't help much with extra index, what we want to achieve is to fetch the 
&gt; &gt; object in one time.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Our use case, client search DB every 10 seconds by 2i, Riak will return a 
&gt; &gt; list of around 5000 results(Keys), then client will query DB to fetch value 
&gt; &gt; for each key, basically it is around 5000 times, client is easy to run 
&gt; &gt; into some issues most of the time. Any suggestion here ?
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Many thanks in advance.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Br,
&gt; &gt; Alex
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; 2017-02-06 19:02 GMT+08:00 Alex Feng :
&gt; &gt; Hi Russell,
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; It is really helpful, thank you a lot.
&gt; &gt; We are suffering from solr crash now, are considering to switch to 2i.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Br,
&gt; &gt; Alex
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; 2017-02-06 16:53 GMT+08:00 Russell Brown :
&gt; &gt; It’s worth noting that secondary indexes (2i) has some other advantages 
&gt; &gt; over solr search. If you \_can\_ model your queries in 2i then I'd recommend 
&gt; &gt; it.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Secondary indexes have a richer API than is currently documented, if you 
&gt; &gt; look at https://docs.basho.com/riak/1.4.7/dev/using/2i/ you’ll see that 
&gt; &gt; documents a feature that allows the index terms to be filtered via reg ex. 
&gt; &gt; There is also the feature that can return the actual riak objects for a 
&gt; &gt; $keys index search,
&gt; &gt; You can pack the index terms with data and return the terms in a query so 
&gt; &gt; that you don’t need a further object fetch (see return\_terms in docs.)
&gt; &gt; Secondary indexes are written atomically with the object they index.
&gt; &gt; Operationally they don’t require you run a JVM and Solr alongside your riak 
&gt; &gt; nodes.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; You have the tools with basho\_bench to answer the question about 
&gt; &gt; performance and overhead for your workload. I suspect for “overhead” 2i 
&gt; &gt; wins, as there is no JVM-per-node.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Modelling for 2i is perhaps harder, in the classical nosql way, you have to 
&gt; &gt; do more work upfront when designing your querying.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; I hope that helps a little. I worked quite a lot on 2i and never really 
&gt; &gt; understood why riak-search was seen as a replacment, imo they’re 
&gt; &gt; complementary, and you pick the one that best fits.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Cheers
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Russell
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; On 2 Feb 2017, at 09:43, Alex Feng  wrote:
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; Hello Riak-users,
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; I am currently using Riak search to do some queries, since my queries are 
&gt; &gt; &gt; very simple, it should be fulfilled by secondary indexes as well.
&gt; &gt; &gt; So, my question is which one has better performance and less overhead, 
&gt; &gt; &gt; let's say both can fulfill the query requirement.
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; Many thanks in advance.
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; Br,
&gt; &gt; &gt; Alex
&gt; &gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; 
&gt; 


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

