---
title: "Re: 2i streaming"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-08-14T08:58:38-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12031"
author_name: "Reid Draper"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-08-14T08:58:38-07:00
---


This is an old thread, but I figured I'd give it an answer now, since we have a 
much better story in Riak 1.4.x. As you may know, we now support result 
limiting and pagination in 2i. You can read more about it here [1], in the 
'pagination' section. This will allow you to only buffer `N` results at a time, 
out of a much larger query.

[1] http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/dev/using/2i/

Reid


On Mar 4, 2013, at 7:18 AM, Pavel Kirienko  
wrote:

&gt; Hi everyone,
&gt; 
&gt; Is there any way to request a large number of keys through 2i streaming? Say, 
&gt; there is index with 10M entries, I want to extract 1M of them. Obviously the 
&gt; block request (i.e. all data packed into the single response) is not a best 
&gt; idea since it requires a good amount of memory either on client and the 
&gt; server.
&gt; 
&gt; One can suggest to feed 2i output into the Map/Reduce job with streaming 
&gt; output, but this way is not so hot either: it is really slow (our 3-node 
&gt; cluster stumbles on 100k keys for a minutes); and sometimes it just isn't 
&gt; working (streaming may stop occasionally before all data being kicked out). 
&gt; Not to mention that on 1M of keys Map/Reduce job just never starts.
&gt; 
&gt; Is it possible to perform 2i queries for large number of keys, or shall I use 
&gt; another storage for indexing instead? (like Redis maybe)
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks in advance.
&gt; 
&gt; Pavel.
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

