---
title: "Re: How to refresh Riak's data"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-03-30T07:27:53-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15936"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15935"
author_name: "Alexander Sicular"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-03-30T07:27:53-07:00
---


If you're using leveldb youve modified your config file because the default
backend is bitcask. You also have to do a few config things to get Solr
working. So if you've done that and have been indexing things with Solr
then go ahead and delete that too. If thats what you want to do. I believe
that's the default leveldb path for some installations. Check the config
file.

-Alexander

On Monday, March 30, 2015, Alex De la rosa  wrote:

&gt; cool, but only this one?
&gt;
&gt; /var/lib/riak/leveldb
&gt;
&gt; Is there anything else to delete for SOLR indexes, etc...?
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; Alex
&gt;
&gt; On Mon, Mar 30, 2015 at 4:14 PM, Alexander Sicular  &gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi Alex,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; It basically works the same way. Shut down riak. Locate the data folder
&gt;&gt; and delete all the stuff in it.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; -Alexander
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; @siculars
&gt;&gt; http://siculars.posthaven.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Sent from my iRotaryPhone
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; On Mar 30, 2015, at 04:41, Alex De la rosa &gt; &gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; Hi there,
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; I have a 1-node riak 2.0.5 cluster for testing stuff on my laptop
&gt;&gt; (Ubuntu); how can I refresh the node without having to uninstall and
&gt;&gt; install it again?
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; I remember in riak 0.14 there was a way to do it stopping the node,
&gt;&gt; deleting some folders and restarting the node back. How to do it for 2.0.5?
&gt;&gt; I'm using levelDB backend.
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; Thanks!
&gt;&gt; &gt; Alex
&gt;&gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

