---
title: "Re: Riak does not work on ec2"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-06-20T22:23:46-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11319"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg11317"
author_name: "Jared Morrow"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-06-20T22:23:46-07:00
---


David,

Riak does indeed work on EC2, we have many customers who deploy exclusively
to EC2. We also happened to do some large cluster testing on ec2 this week
so I know nothing has suddenly gone awry.

Your problem seems to be you using your external IP rather than your
internal IP in your configuration. Try changing to internal IP. For AWS,
here are a couple of pages on our docs that will probably be really helpful.

http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/tutorials/installation/Installing-on-AWS-Marketplace/
http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/cookbooks/Performance-Tuning-AWS/

Good luck,
Jared


On Thu, Jun 20, 2013 at 9:55 PM, David Montgomery  wrote:

&gt; Hi,
&gt;
&gt; I am trying to get riak to work on ubuntu 12.04 and is proving not to be a
&gt; friendly install on ec2.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; 1) I am using riak\_1.3.1-1\_amd64.deb and have libssl0.9.8 installed
&gt;
&gt; 2) I stop riak then run
&gt;
&gt; riak-admin cluster replace riak@127.0.0.1 r...@xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx
&gt; riak-admin cluster plan
&gt; riak-admin cluster commit
&gt; Attempting to restart script through sudo -H -u riak
&gt; Node is not running!
&gt;
&gt; At the very bottom are the config files. I change all of 127.0.0.1 to the
&gt; public ip addres of the machine on ec2. Kinda hard to mess up there I am
&gt; using chef. node[:ec2][:public\_ipv4]
&gt;
&gt; 3) The logs are not being very helpful. What does the below mean in
&gt; english?
&gt;
&gt; root@domU-12-31-39-0C-59-1D:/home/ubuntu# riak console
&gt; Attempting to restart script through sudo -H -u riak
&gt; Exec: /usr/lib/riak/erts-5.9.1/bin/erlexec -boot
&gt; /usr/lib/riak/releases/1.3.1/riak -embedded -config
&gt; /etc/riak/app.config -pa
&gt; /usr/lib/riak/lib/basho-patches -args\_file /etc/riak/vm.args --
&gt; console
&gt; Root: /usr/lib/riak
&gt; Erlang R15B01 (erts-5.9.1) [source] [64-bit] [smp:1:1] [async-threads:64]
&gt; [kernel-poll:true]
&gt;
&gt; /usr/lib/riak/lib/os\_mon-2.2.9/priv/bin/memsup: Erlang has closed.
&gt; Erlang
&gt; has closed
&gt;
&gt; {"Kernel pid
&gt; terminated",application\_controller,"{application\_start\_failure,riak\_core,{shutdown,{riak\_core\_app,start,[normal,[]]}}}"}
&gt;
&gt; Crash dump was written to: /var/log/riak/erl\_crash.dump
&gt; Kernel pid terminated (application\_controller)
&gt; ({application\_start\_failure,riak\_core,{shutdown,{riak\_core\_app,start,[normal,[]]}}})
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; So..what could the issue be? Is there a missing manual? What did I miss
&gt; from the documentation on
&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/cookbooks/Basic-Cluster-Setup/
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; %% Riak Client APIs config
&gt; {riak\_api, [
&gt; %% pb\_backlog is the maximum length to which the queue of
&gt; pending
&gt; %% connections may grow. If set, it must be an integer &gt;= 0.
&gt; %% By default the value is 5. If you anticipate a huge number
&gt; of
&gt; %% connections being initialised \*simultaneously\*, set this
&gt; number
&gt; %% higher.
&gt; %% {pb\_backlog, 64},
&gt;
&gt; %% pb\_ip is the IP address that the Riak Protocol Buffers
&gt; interface
&gt; %% will bind to. If this is undefined, the interface will not
&gt; run.
&gt; {pb\_ip, "xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx" },
&gt;
&gt; %% pb\_port is the TCP port that the Riak Protocol Buffers
&gt; interface
&gt; %% will bind to
&gt; {pb\_port, 8087 }
&gt; ]},
&gt;
&gt; %% Riak Core config
&gt; {riak\_core, [
&gt; %% Default location of ringstate
&gt; {ring\_state\_dir, "/var/lib/riak/ring"},
&gt;
&gt; %% Default ring creation size. Make sure it is a power of 2,
&gt; %% e.g. 16, 32, 64, 128, 256, 512 etc
&gt; %{ring\_creation\_size, 64},
&gt;
&gt; %% http is a list of IP addresses and TCP ports that the Riak
&gt; %% HTTP interface will bind.
&gt; {http, [ {"xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx", 8098 } ]},
&gt;
&gt; %% https is a list of IP addresses and TCP ports that the
&gt; Riak
&gt; %% HTTPS interface will bind.
&gt; %{https, [{ "xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx", 8098 }]},
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; ## Name of the riak node
&gt; -name r...@xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

