---
title: "Re: Slow bucket create/delete in Riak CS"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-08-14T19:56:11-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14655"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14654"
author_name: "Kota Uenishi"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-08-14T19:56:11-07:00
---


David,

I'm sure your version of Riak CS is 1.5.0. At 1.5.0 we fixed bug #475
by traversing whole bucket in creation and deletion [1]. This traverse
reads all objects in the bucket, even if it is already deleted.
Deleted objects remains physically for a while - (called leeway
seconds) - with it's manifests. Checking bucket before deletion or
creation reads manifests in a scheduled\_delete state. That's why it's
slow. If you wait for leeway seconds and make sure GC cleaned up all
of them, bucket creation or deletion will be as fast as before
creating many objects.

[2] is a little bit deeper description of how object chunking and
garbage collection work, for further reading.

[1] 
https://github.com/basho/riak\_cs/blob/release/1.5/RELEASE-NOTES.md#incomplete-multipart-uploads
[2] https://github.com/basho/riak\_cs/wiki/Object-Chunking-and-Garbage-Collection

On Fri, Aug 15, 2014 at 5:12 AM, David Whittington  wrote:
&gt; In testing Riak CS I've noticed that buckets that have had a lot of object
&gt; updates take a while to delete even if they're empty at the time of
&gt; deletion. Also, after deletion, creating a new bucket with the same name
&gt; takes a similar amount of time. This effect seems to persist indefinitely.
&gt;
&gt; Here's an example: https://gist.github.com/djwhitt/9480a1adb52a4b87d246
&gt;
&gt; While this isn't a huge problem since the operation ultimately succeeds and
&gt; it doesn't need to be super fast for my use case, it does make me curious.
&gt; What is going on here? Is something not getting cleaned up properly? Anyone
&gt; else experiencing anything like this?
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; David Whittington
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;



-- 
Kota UENISHI / @kuenishi
Basho Japan KK

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

