---
title: "Re: Status and maturity of riak-cs"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2017-08-01T01:00:08-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg18400"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg18399"
author_name: "Russell Brown"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2017-08-01T01:00:08-07:00
---


Not sure how great an idea is it to inject an unfinished solution into the 
conversation, but Scott Fritchie and a small team were working on Machi, before 
it was short-sightedly shelved by management.

https://github.com/basho/machi

Maybe the world could use another blob store after all?


On 1 Aug 2017, at 08:50, Javier Palacios  wrote:

&gt; 
&gt;&gt; -----Mensaje original-----
&gt;&gt; De: riak-users [mailto:riak-users-boun...@lists.basho.com] En nombre de
&gt;&gt; Toby Corkindale
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; I've been actively trying to migrate over to Minio for S3 storage, instead.
&gt;&gt; Worth a look, and unlike riak CS, has had lots of active development in 
&gt;&gt; recent
&gt;&gt; times.
&gt; 
&gt; Regarding minio, we had a look a few months ago when deciding about object 
&gt; storage. We discarded it mainly because at that time there was no way to 
&gt; replace a damaged disk. That is, if you got 4 disk and 1 breaks, you will 
&gt; keep with 3 disks. Self-healing was close to beta stage, but the fact that it 
&gt; weren't considered a zero-day feature discouraged me a bit. It was also 
&gt; unclear about growing capabilities respect to the allocated storage size. 
&gt; Actually, I was told on the slack channel that it wasn't possible.
&gt; The other primary alternative we evaluate was swift, but discarded because it 
&gt; seemed too big for our current needs & infrastructure.
&gt; 
&gt; Javier Palacios
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

