---
title: "Riak CS/Stanchion troubleshooting (Retrieval of user record)"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-11-13T09:06:55-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16767"
author_name: "Vladyslav Zakhozhai"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-11-13T09:06:55-08:00
---


Hello.

I have Riak CS cluster with 18 nodes. On each node there is Riak CS and
Riak service and one Stanchion node.

Versions:
Riak 1.4.12
Riak CS 1.5.0
Stanchion 1.5.0

Riak CS and Riak allocated behind HAProxy balancers:

WAN -&gt; HAProxy -&gt; Riak CS nodes -&gt; HAProxy -&gt; Riak nodes.
ans
Stanchion -&gt; HAProxy -&gt; Riak

Today due a spike of traffic load (about 1000 rps) on the cluster 50% of
Riak CS returned HTTP 500 and 503 (querying /riak-cs/ping resource also was
not successful).

In Riak CS logs I've seen the following messages:

2015-11-13 13:13:09.514 [error]
&lt;0.11264.1387&gt;@riak\_cs\_wm\_common:maybe\_create\_user:222 Retrieval of user
record for s3 failed. Reason: disconnected

In Riak CS logs I see the following:
2015-11-13 17:31:52.995 [error] &lt;0.11254.6534&gt; Lager event handler
error\_logger\_lager\_h exited with reason
{'EXIT',{{badmatch,["/buckets/uaprom-image/objects/272547384\_cid1322007\_pid183135512-26a7c1f3.jpg",{error,{error,{badmatch,{error,closed}},[{webmachine\_request,recv\_unchunked\_body,3,[{file,"src/webmachine\_request.erl"},{line,471}]},{webmachine\_request,call,2,[{file,"src/webmachine\_request.erl"},{line,193}]},{wrq,stream\_req\_body,2,[{file,"src/wrq.erl"},{line,121}]},{riak\_cs\_wm\_object,handle\_normal\_put,2,[{file,"src/riak\_cs\_wm\_object.erl"},{line,341}]},{riak\_cs\_wm\_common,accept\_body,2,[{file,...},...]},...]}},...]},...}}

I suspect that there were problem between Riak CS - Stanhion or Stanhion -
Riak. I have no clear idea in Stanchion troubleshooting. The main reason is
the following. Stanhion works fine, service is up (answers on ping
command). But it is very laconic: there is almost nothing in console and
error logs (even with debug log level).

Riak CS adds, removes, gets properties through Stanchion service. Am I
right? I can't exactly understand where is my bottleneck - Riak, Riak CS or
Stanhion.

When we need authenticated access for reading object from bucket do we need
Stanchion? If not I can't understand why I had a lot of error during
getting objects from Riak CS.

Thank you in advance.

P. S. Sometimes when there is some issues with Riak CS - Stanchion
connectivity I need to restart Riak CS.
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

