---
title: "Re: 2i at large scale?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-09-25T11:28:03-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12387"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12382"
author_name: "Jared Morrow"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-09-25T11:28:03-07:00
---


Benchmarking a database designed for multiple nodes on a single node
usually doesn't give you any measurements that are useful. We recommend 5
nodes minimum for clusters, so if you can do that, it is best to benchmark
on a realistic cluster. If you are determined to benchmark on a single
node, you should configure your N value to be 1 so you aren't doing 3x the
work. Also, you should probably set your ring size to 8 so you don't run
out of memory (which I suspect is your problem).

I replied similarly here
http://riak-users.197444.n3.nabble.com/How-to-make-Riak-work-faster-writing-tp4025882p4025909.htmland
you can read that to see how to adjust the n\_val on a bucket.

Good luck.

-Jared


On Wed, Sep 25, 2013 at 9:50 AM, Wagner Camarao wrote:

&gt; Hi,
&gt;
&gt; I'm benchmarking 2i at scale of billion records, running one physical node
&gt; locally with mostly default configs - except for LevelDB instead of
&gt; Bitcask. Up to this point (14MM records in the bucket that's being indexed)
&gt; it's still performing lookups well for my use case (read ~ 7ms using
&gt; riak-ruby-client over http).
&gt;
&gt; However, along this process I've noticed riak to go down twice. First time
&gt; (8MM records) I could just start it again and continue my benchmarking from
&gt; the point it were left, but now at the second time (14MM records) when I
&gt; started riak again, it took about 3 minutes to respond to my first request.
&gt;
&gt; What was happening during these long startup minutes, after my second
&gt; crash?
&gt;
&gt; Up to which scale have you guys been successfully using secondary indexes?
&gt;
&gt; Any other ideas given my use case / benchmarking scenario?
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; Wagner
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

