---
title: "Re: ulimit error"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2016-04-15T14:48:07-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg17233"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg17232"
author_name: "Luke Bakken"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2016-04-15T14:48:07-07:00
---


Satish -

Thanks for the info. Did you install the Basho-packaged Riak or build
it yourself?

If you built it yourself, I suspect you are running into this issue:
https://github.com/basho/riak/issues/267

Fix is here: https://gist.github.com/vinoski/4689170

Please remember to use "reply all" so that the riak-users list may
gain from our debugging.

--
Luke Bakken
Engineer
lbak...@basho.com

On Fri, Apr 15, 2016 at 2:05 PM, satish bhatti  wrote:
&gt; Remote Shell: Use "Ctrl-C a" to quit. q() or init:stop() will terminate the
&gt; riak node.
&gt; Erlang R15B01 (erts-5.9.1) [source] [64-bit] [smp:8:8] [async-threads:0]
&gt; [kernel-poll:false]
&gt;
&gt; Eshell V5.9.1 (abort with ^G)
&gt; (riak@127.0.0.1)1&gt; os:cmd("ulimit -n").
&gt; "65536\n"
&gt; (riak@127.0.0.1)2&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Fri, Apr 15, 2016 at 1:21 PM, Luke Bakken  wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Please run:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; riak attach
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; then in the Erlang shell:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; os:cmd("ulimit -n").
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Please note that the period at the end of the above statement is
&gt;&gt; significant. CTRL-C twice will exit the attach session.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; Luke Bakken
&gt;&gt; Engineer
&gt;&gt; lbak...@basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Fri, Apr 15, 2016 at 1:02 PM, satish bhatti  wrote:
&gt;&gt; &gt; That's the strange thing. I read that, and modified
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; /Library/LaunchDaemons/limit.maxproc.plist
&gt;&gt; &gt; /Library/LaunchDaemons/limit.maxfiles.plist
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; as described.
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; ulimit -n claims to be set to 65536
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; I have attached the logfiles.

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

