---
title: "Re: RIAK 1.4.6 - Mass key deletion"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-02-18T07:31:24-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13661"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13660"
author_name: "Edgar Veiga"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-02-18T07:31:24-08:00
---


Sorry, forgot that info!

It's leveldb.

Best regards


On 18 February 2014 15:27, Matthew Von-Maszewski  wrote:

&gt; Which Riak backend are you using: bitcask, leveldb, multi?
&gt;
&gt; Matthew
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Feb 18, 2014, at 10:17 AM, Edgar Veiga  wrote:
&gt;
&gt; &gt; Hi all!
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; I have a fairly trivial question regarding mass deletion on a riak
&gt; cluster, but firstly let me give you just some context. My cluster is
&gt; running with riak 1.4.6 on 6 machines with a ring of 256 nodes and 1Tb ssd
&gt; disks.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; I need to execute a massive object deletion on a bucket, I'm talking of
&gt; ~1 billion keys (The object average size is ~1Kb). I will not retrive the
&gt; keys from riak because a I have a file with all of them. I'll just start a
&gt; script that reads them from the file and triggers an HTTP DELETE for each
&gt; one.
&gt; &gt; The cluster will continue running on production with a quite high load
&gt; serving all other applications, while running this deletion.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; My question is simple, do I need to have any kind of extra concerns
&gt; regarding this action? Do you advise me on taking special attention to any
&gt; kind of metrics regarding riak or event the servers where it's running?
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Best regards!
&gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

