---
title: "Re: Problem with multithreadeding in Java"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2017-04-15T07:41:35-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg18151"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg18149"
author_name: "Allexandre Sampaio"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2017-04-15T07:41:35-07:00
---


Hi Alex, the code bellow is used to set up the Riak Client (if no one is
already started) or share the client with the threads.

 public RiakClient getDB() throws UnknownHostException {
 if (client == null) {
 client = RiakClient.newClient("localhost");
 }
 return client;
 }

According to the Java library's documentation on GitHub, the object
returned as a client could be used by multiple threads...
The class where I'm doing this is a singleton class, in a facade model.

Att.,

\*Allexandre Sampaio\*
\*Sistemas de Informação - IFBA\*
\*Vitória da Conquista - BA\*
\*(77) 99964 3521\*

2017-04-14 22:13 GMT-03:00 Alex Moore :

&gt; Hi Allexandre,
&gt;
&gt; Could you share your code for setting up the RiakNode/RiakCluster/RiakClient
&gt; objects on the Java side, and how you are sharing them amongst your worker
&gt; threads?
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; Alex
&gt; Clients Team Lead
&gt;
&gt; On Thu, Apr 13, 2017 at 6:09 PM, Allexandre Sampaio &lt;
&gt; allexandre...@gmail.com&gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi, I'm using Riak TS in a multithreaded application, running on an
&gt;&gt; Ubuntu 16.04 server, for a college project. The library I'm using is
&gt;&gt; riak-client-2.1.1, with all of its dependencies.
&gt;&gt; The problem starts when I try to set more than some dozens threads, so
&gt;&gt; the Riak service starts to refuse the connection and throw errors.
&gt;&gt; I've checked and all the threads are using the same client (that is
&gt;&gt; thread safe, according to its docs).
&gt;&gt; I also tried to change the riak conf file to allow the maximum of threads
&gt;&gt; (1024), but it didn't change nothing...
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Need help.
&gt;&gt; Thanks!
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Att.,
&gt;&gt; \*Allexandre Sampaio\*
&gt;&gt; \*Sistemas de Informação - IFBA\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \*Vitória da Conquista - BA, Brasil\*
&gt;&gt; \*(77) 99964 3521\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

