---
title: "Re: Riak consumes too much memory"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-10-24T15:23:36-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12753"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12695"
author_name: "Dave Martorana"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-10-24T15:23:36-07:00
---


Awesome - thanks for the info. I'm planning on launching in step with 2.0,
so very cool stuff.

Dave


On Fri, Oct 18, 2013 at 2:37 PM, Matthew Von-Maszewski
wrote:

&gt; Darren
&gt;
&gt; File cache is favored over block cache. The cost of a miss to the file
&gt; cache is much larger than a miss to the block cache. The block cache will
&gt; release data for a new file cache entry, until it reaches a minimum of
&gt; 2Mbytes. Both caches use Google's original LRU formula to remove the least
&gt; recently used cache entry to make space.
&gt;
&gt; File cache will release any file cache entry that has not been accessed in
&gt; 4 days. This keeps old, stale files from taking up memory for no reason.
&gt;
&gt; Matthew
&gt;
&gt; On Oct 18, 2013, at 2:24 PM, Darren Govoni  wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Sounds nice. And then the question is what happens when that limit is
&gt; reached on a node?
&gt;
&gt; On 10/18/2013 02:21 PM, Matthew Von-Maszewski wrote:
&gt;
&gt; The user has the option of setting a default memory limit in the
&gt; app.config / riak.conf file (either absolute number or percentage of total
&gt; system memory). There is a default percentage (which I am still adjusting)
&gt; if the user takes no action.
&gt;
&gt; The single memory value is then dynamically partitioned to each Riak
&gt; vnode (and AAE vnodes) as the server takes on more or fewer vnodes
&gt; throughout normal operations and node failures.
&gt;
&gt; There is no human interaction required once the memory limit is
&gt; established.
&gt;
&gt; Matthew
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Oct 18, 2013, at 2:08 PM, darren  wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Is it smart enough to manage itself?
&gt; Or does it require human babysitting?
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Sent from my Verizon Wireless 4G LTE Smartphone
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; -------- Original message --------
&gt; From: Matthew Von-Maszewski 
&gt; Date: 10/18/2013 1:48 PM (GMT-05:00)
&gt; To: Dave Martorana 
&gt; Cc: darren ,riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; Subject: Re: Riak consumes too much memory
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Dave,
&gt;
&gt; flexcache will be a new feature in Riak 2.0. There are some subscribers
&gt; to this mailing list that like to download and try things early. I was
&gt; directing those subscribers to the GitHub branch that contains the
&gt; work-in-progress code.
&gt;
&gt; flexcache is a new method for sizing / accounting the memory used by
&gt; leveldb. It replaces the current method completely. flexcache is
&gt; therefore not an option, but an upgrade to the existing logic.
&gt;
&gt; Again, the detailed discussion is here:
&gt; ttps://github.com/basho/leveldb/wiki/mv-flexcache
&gt;
&gt; Matthew
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Oct 18, 2013, at 12:33 PM, Dave Martorana  wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Matthew,
&gt;
&gt; For we who don't quite understand, can you explain - does this mean
&gt; mv-flexcache is a feature that just comes with 2.0, or is it something that
&gt; will need to be turned on, etc?
&gt;
&gt; Thanks!
&gt;
&gt; Dave
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Thu, Oct 17, 2013 at 9:45 PM, Matthew Von-Maszewski  &gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; It is already in test and available for your download now:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; https://github.com/basho/leveldb/tree/mv-flexcache
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Discussion is here:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; https://github.com/basho/leveldb/wiki/mv-flexcache
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; This code is slated for Riak 2.0. Enjoy!!
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Matthew
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Oct 17, 2013, at 20:50, darren  wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; But why isn't riak smart enough to adjust itself to the available
&gt;&gt; memory or lack thereof?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; No serious enterprise technology should just consume everything and
&gt;&gt; crash.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Sent from my Verizon Wireless 4G LTE Smartphone
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; -------- Original message --------
&gt;&gt; From: Matthew Von-Maszewski 
&gt;&gt; Date: 10/17/2013 8:38 PM (GMT-05:00)
&gt;&gt; To: ZhouJianhua 
&gt;&gt; Cc: riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; Subject: Re: Riak consumes too much memory
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Greetings,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; The default config targets 5 servers and 16 to 32G of RAM. Yes, the
&gt;&gt; app.config needs some adjustment to achieve happiness for you:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; - change ring\_creation\_size from 64 to 16 (remove the % from the
&gt;&gt; beginning of the line)
&gt;&gt; - add this line before "{data\_root, }" in eleveldb section:
&gt;&gt; "{max\_open\_files, 40}," (be sure the comma is at the end of this line).
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Good luck,
&gt;&gt; Matthew
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Oct 17, 2013, at 8:23 PM, ZhouJianhua  wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I installed riak v1.4.2 on ubuntu12.04(64bit, 4G RAM) with apt-get,
&gt;&gt; run it with default app.conf but change the backend to leveldb, and test
&gt;&gt; it with https://github.com/tpjg/goriakpbc .
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Just keep putting (key, value) to an bucket, the memory always increasing,
&gt;&gt; and in the end it crashed, as it cannot allocate memory.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Should i change the configuration or other?
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

