---
title: "Re: Yokozuna Schema Changes"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-11-08T15:58:36-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12913"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12912"
author_name: "Jeremiah Peschka"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-11-08T15:58:36-08:00
---


Yeah, I ran into some difficulties while trying to modify schema. Even
after modifications I ended up having to do a rolling restart of the
cluster to get YZ to pick up the new schema.

Obviously a rolling restart of Riak isn't the biggest issue on earth, it's
not ideal either.

---
Jeremiah Peschka - Founder, Brent Ozar Unlimited
MCITP: SQL Server 2008, MVP
Cloudera Certified Developer for Apache Hadoop


On Fri, Nov 8, 2013 at 3:54 PM, Ryan Zezeski  wrote:

&gt; Hi Jeremiah,
&gt;
&gt; Yes. I very much want the ability to update the schema in 2.0. More
&gt; fundamental things have leap frogged it. Technically you can modify a
&gt; schema today but it has to be done by hand and is error prone.
&gt;
&gt; -Z
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Fri, Nov 8, 2013 at 6:42 PM, Jeremiah Peschka &lt;
&gt; jeremiah.pesc...@gmail.com&gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; I notice that YZ issue 130 (support for schema updates) was created 5
&gt;&gt; months ago and doesn't have any commits against it right now. Is this still
&gt;&gt; on track to get pushed into the product as part of Riak 2.0 or has no work
&gt;&gt; begun?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks
&gt;&gt; ---
&gt;&gt; Jeremiah Peschka - Founder, Brent Ozar Unlimited
&gt;&gt; MCITP: SQL Server 2008, MVP
&gt;&gt; Cloudera Certified Developer for Apache Hadoop
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

