---
title: "Re: CorrugatedIron & Idle Connection"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-07-11T07:34:26-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11479"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg11478"
author_name: "OJ Reeves"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-07-11T07:34:26-07:00
---


This is a discussion we really need to have. Thanks for opening the Github
issue.

In the short term, you can "turn off" pooling by setting the pool size to
zero. This will mean all the connections are done "on the fly".


On Fri, Jul 12, 2013 at 12:26 AM, Amir Halatzi wrote:

&gt; Just did:
&gt; https://github.com/DistributedNonsense/CorrugatedIron/issues/153\*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt; \*\* \*\*
&gt;
&gt; Still, if we’d like to manage it ourselves - how would you recommend going
&gt; about it? Should we interfere with the way you handle the connection, or
&gt; just retry the action on ‘network failure’?\*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt; \*\* \*\*
&gt;
&gt; BR,\*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt; Amir\*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt; \*\* \*\*
&gt;
&gt; \*From:\* Jeremiah Peschka [mailto:jeremiah.pesc...@gmail.com]
&gt; \*Sent:\* 11 July 2013 17:11
&gt; \*To:\* Amir Halatzi
&gt; \*Cc:\* riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; \*Subject:\* Re: CorrugatedIron & Idle Connection\*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt; \*\* \*\*
&gt;
&gt; We're in the process of figuring out how to best handle killing off idle
&gt; connections inside of CorrugatedIron. If you can head over to
&gt; https://github.com/DistributedNonsense/CorrugatedIron/issues and file a
&gt; new bug report, that would be fantastic.\*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt; \*\* \*\*
&gt;
&gt; We've avoided killing off connections until now because we don't want to
&gt; introduce locking into our connection management. Truthfully, we haven't
&gt; run into a bug report where the network team was killing off connections.\*
&gt; \*\*\*
&gt;
&gt; \*\* \*\*
&gt;
&gt; So, anyway, if you can submit a bug report we'll get on it. It won't make
&gt; it out for the 1.4.0 release, but we can put that in a point release.\*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt; ---\*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt; Jeremiah Peschka - Founder, Brent Ozar Unlimited\*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt; MCITP: SQL Server 2008, MVP\*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt; Cloudera Certified Developer for Apache Hadoop\*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt; \*\* \*\*
&gt;
&gt; On Thu, Jul 11, 2013 at 6:59 AM, Amir Halatzi 
&gt; wrote:\*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt; Hi all,
&gt;
&gt; Trying to optimize our application connection pool, we encountered and
&gt; issue with Corrugated Iron and identifying idle/reset connections. Namely,
&gt; if our network infrastructure (firewall/proxy/etc) closes an idle
&gt; connection - we're getting a 'cluster is offline' error code.
&gt;
&gt; I saw that this is a feature in the making (for the past 8 months), but I
&gt; was wondering if any of you found a way around it?
&gt;
&gt; Thank you,
&gt; Amir Halatzi,
&gt; ooVoo
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com\*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt; \*\* \*\*
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;


-- 

OJ Reeves
+61 431 952 586
http://buffered.io/
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

