---
title: "Re: Default values vs non-existing keys for CRDTs"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-09-19T01:01:44-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16545"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16444"
author_name: "Russell Brown"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-09-19T01:01:44-07:00
---



&gt; On 20 Aug 2015, at 18:54, Timur Fayruzov  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; Forgot to include the list in the initial response.
&gt; 
&gt; On Thu, Aug 20, 2015 at 12:31 AM, Russell Brown  wrote:
&gt; It’s a tricky one Timur. CRDTs are based on Join Semi-Lattices, and they have 
&gt; the concept of a bottom value. That is what you are seeing. Implicitly all 
&gt; keys exist at the bottom value until you operate on them.
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks, Russell. I was under impression that key mechanism does not differ 
&gt; between 'regular' KV store and CRDT, that is checking key existence does not 
&gt; involve CRDT concepts. Is that not true?

I guess.

&gt; 
&gt; Since you cannot do a compare-and-set operation with a counter anyway (that 
&gt; is you can’t “put counter with value 0” at that key), why do you need to 
&gt; distinguish between 0 as bottom and 0 as value?
&gt; 
&gt; I'm building a Scala wrapper for our services to use and trying to provide a 
&gt; uniform simple interface for CRDT counters and sets (maps are a whole 
&gt; different story). One of the fundamental operations is to be able to tell 
&gt; whether a key exists in the store. Although it's not possible to 'set' 
&gt; counter to 0, update '+1' followed by update '-1' at 'key' will result in 
&gt; 'key' with value 0, which is semantically different from answer "no 'key' 
&gt; found”.

I’m pretty sure the API returns not\_found. I still don’t fully understand what 
application logic would need to differentiate between zero and not\_found for a 
counter, and not\_found and the empty set for a set.

&gt; 
&gt; Could you also comment whether null context for a set is a valid way to tell 
&gt; that set did not exist in store? It feels hacky. 

I guess it is, yes.

&gt; 
&gt; On 20 Aug 2015, at 01:59, Timur Fayruzov  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; &gt; Hello,
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; It seems that Riak Datatype API does not allow to distinguish between 
&gt; &gt; non-existing keys and default values. For example, if I query for 
&gt; &gt; non-existing key as follows:
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; val fetchOp = new FetchCounter.Builder(key).build()
&gt; &gt; val c = client.execute(fetchOp).getDatatype
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; I'll get a counter that holds 0. Now, if I put counter with value 0 at this 
&gt; &gt; key and run the query, I get the same result. Is there any way to 
&gt; &gt; distinguish between these two different states?
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Note: when working with sets there is a context that I can check. If I 
&gt; &gt; fetch a set and the context is null, it means that the set does not exist 
&gt; &gt; under this key. This trick does not work for counters though, as they do 
&gt; &gt; not maintain context. Is it a valid trick to use though?
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; I posted this to StackOverflow a while ago, but no luck: 
&gt; &gt; http://stackoverflow.com/questions/31845164/riak-dataypes-default-values-vs-non-existing-keys
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Thanks,
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Timur
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; 


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

