---
title: "Re: Questions about Ruby under Riak"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-02-20T07:39:07-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13678"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13677"
author_name: "Luke Bakken"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-02-20T07:39:07-08:00
---


Hi Yehang -

Ruby comes with many standard libraries ("gems"), but the library for
connecting to a Riak cluster is not one of them. That's what the "gem
install riak-client" did - fetched and installed the library that
provides the ability to connect to and interact with a Riak cluster.

More info here: http://guides.rubygems.org/

--
Luke Bakken
CSE
lbak...@basho.com


On Thu, Feb 20, 2014 at 7:29 AM, 韩业航  wrote:
&gt; thank you very much, it works! can you tell me the reason for this?
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Thu, Feb 20, 2014 at 10:23 AM, Luke Bakken  wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hello Yehang,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Exit IRB and run this command:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; gem install riak-client
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; When you re-run IRB "require riak" should work.
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; Luke Bakken
&gt;&gt; CSE
&gt;&gt; lbak...@basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Thu, Feb 20, 2014 at 7:19 AM, 韩业航  wrote:
&gt;&gt; &gt; Dear all,
&gt;&gt; &gt; I have install Riak under ubuntu 12.04 and set up a local Riak
&gt;&gt; &gt; cluster
&gt;&gt; &gt; which has five nodes. I want use ruby to populate a script.
&gt;&gt; &gt; i install all the requirements of ruby and type IRB in the terminal,it
&gt;&gt; &gt; works.but when i type require 'riak'. I got the following result:
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; LoadError: cannot load such file -- riak
&gt;&gt; &gt; from
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; /home/yehang/.rvm/rubies/ruby-2.1.0/lib/ruby/site\_ruby/2.1.0/rubygems/core\_ext/kernel\_require.rb:55:in
&gt;&gt; &gt; `require'
&gt;&gt; &gt; from
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; /home/yehang/.rvm/rubies/ruby-2.1.0/lib/ruby/site\_ruby/2.1.0/rubygems/core\_ext/kernel\_require.rb:55:in
&gt;&gt; &gt; `require'
&gt;&gt; &gt; from (irb):3
&gt;&gt; &gt; from /home/yehang/.rvm/rubies/ruby-2.1.0/bin/irb:11:in `'
&gt;&gt; &gt; Can anyone give some advice? I am a beginner. Thanks in advance!
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; sincerely
&gt;&gt; &gt; yehang
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;
&gt;

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

