---
title: "Re: Changing ring size on 1.4 cluster"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2016-06-01T11:52:38-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg17443"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg17442"
author_name: "Alex De la rosa"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2016-06-01T11:52:38-07:00
---


Can the ring size be changed easily in Riak 2.X?

Imagine I have 5 servers originally with a ring\_size = 64... If later on I
add 5 more servers (10 in total) and I also want to duplicate the
partitions, can I just edit the ring\_size to 128?

How would be the process to do it? Will it rebalance properly and have no
issues?

Thanks,
Alex

On Wed, Jun 1, 2016 at 10:46 PM, Luke Bakken  wrote:

&gt; Hi Johnny,
&gt;
&gt; Yes, the latter two are your main options. For a 1.4 series Riak
&gt; installation, your only option is to bring up a new cluster with the
&gt; desired ring size and replicate data.
&gt; --
&gt; Luke Bakken
&gt; Engineer
&gt; lbak...@basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Fri, May 27, 2016 at 12:11 PM, Johnny Tan  wrote:
&gt; &gt; The docs
&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riak/kv/2.1.4/configuring/basic/#ring-size
&gt; &gt; seem to imply that there's no easy, non-destructive way to change a
&gt; &gt; cluster's ring size live for Riak-1.4x.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; I thought about replacing one node at a time, but you can't join a new
&gt; node
&gt; &gt; or replace an existing one with a node that has a different ring size.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; I was also thinking of bring up a completely new cluster with the new
&gt; ring
&gt; &gt; size, and then replicating the data from the original cluster, and take a
&gt; &gt; quick maintenance window to failover to the new cluster.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; One other alternative seems to be to upgrade to 2.0, and then use 2.x's
&gt; &gt; ability to resize the ring.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Are these latter two my main options?
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; johnny
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

