---
title: "Re: Regarding the number of partitions in riak cluser"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2016-02-22T02:20:36-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg17041"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg17037"
author_name: "Chathuri Gunawardhana"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2016-02-22T02:20:36-08:00
---


I'm running from the master version of this .
I'm running on Ubuntu precise and have 10GB RAM,2 VCPUs and 100 GB hard
disk. Each instance is running a single riak node. Altogether I have 10
instances (for 512 partitions) and 20 for 1024 partitions. The cluster
works fine with 256 partitions or less, but not for more. And yes I have
enough bandwidth.

Thank you very much!

On Mon, Feb 22, 2016 at 7:47 AM, Vitaly E &lt;13vitam...@gmail.com&gt; wrote:

&gt; Hi Chathuri,
&gt;
&gt; Is it Riak KV? Which version?
&gt;
&gt; What hardware are you running your cluster on?
&gt;
&gt; How are the Riak nodes distributed over your physical machines?
&gt;
&gt; Do you have enough network bandwidth?
&gt;
&gt; Regards,
&gt; Vitaly
&gt;
&gt; On Mon, Feb 22, 2016 at 12:35 AM, Chathuri Gunawardhana &lt;
&gt; lanch.gunawardh...@gmail.com&gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; For an experiment I need to run riak (around 100 instances) with very
&gt;&gt; high number of partitions. But when I have 512 partitions even with 10 or
&gt;&gt; 20 instances, there are lot or timeouts with reads and writes and tale a
&gt;&gt; long time to start a node. Can you please tell me why this happens?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thank you very much!
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; Chathuri Gunawardhana
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;


-- 
Chathuri Gunawardhana
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

