---
title: "Re: How to specify dismax related parameters like qf"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2016-10-17T07:19:12-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg17698"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg17697"
author_name: "AJAX DoneBy Jack"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2016-10-17T07:19:12-07:00
---


Hi Magnus,

So you suggest to use http API right? That day I were thinking query the
internal Solr http by sending request. Could you advise what's the
difference between Riak http API and internal Solr http API? What's the
pros and cons to use them?

Thanks,
Ajax

On Monday, 17 October 2016, Magnus Kessler  wrote:

&gt; On 14 October 2016 at 20:18, AJAX DoneBy Jack  &gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hello Basho,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I am very new on Riak Search, I know can add {!dismax}before query string
&gt;&gt; to use it, but don't know how to specify qf or other dismax related
&gt;&gt; parameters in Riak Java Client. Could you advise?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt; Ajax
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Hi Ajax,
&gt;
&gt; The Riak Java Client, as most other Riak clients, uses the Protocol Buffer
&gt; API to communicate with Riak. Yokozuna's implementation of the Protocol
&gt; Buffer API allows only for a small set of query parameters [0], which have
&gt; been chosen to support the standard query parser. As such, there is
&gt; currently no easy way to use the extended set of query parameters through
&gt; the java api.
&gt;
&gt; However, you may have better luck if you talk directly to HTTP API,
&gt; exposed at http://:8098/search/query/. This will accept
&gt; all queries supported by Solr 4.7. Please be aware, though, that some query
&gt; results that require accumulating data from all Solr nodes (such as stats
&gt; queries), may not work as expected. Yokozuna constructs a new coverage
&gt; query very frequently, and the actual results returned depend on which
&gt; nodes are chosen in this query.
&gt;
&gt; Kind Regards,
&gt;
&gt; Magnus
&gt;
&gt; [0]: https://github.com/basho/yokozuna/blob/develop/src/yz\_
&gt; pb\_search.erl#L144-L150
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Magnus Kessler
&gt; Client Services Engineer
&gt; Basho Technologies Limited
&gt;
&gt; Registered Office - 8 Lincoln’s Inn Fields London WC2A 3BP Reg 07970431
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

