---
title: "Re: is it possible to start riak_kv as foreground process?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-07-08T14:44:01-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16284"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16283"
author_name: "Luke Bakken"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-07-08T14:44:01-07:00
---


Hi Roman,

Which "process management system" are you using? I have successfully run
Riak using monit and the fact that Riak runs in the background does not
cause issues.

For instance, this monit configuration will start/stop Riak as well as
monitor it. You must disable your system's init script for Riak if you want
monit to do the job instead.

check process riak
 with pidfile /var/run/riak/riak.pid
 start program = "/etc/init.d/riak start" with timeout 30 seconds
 stop program = "/etc/init.d/riak stop" with timeout 60 seconds
 alert riak-ale...@domain.com
 on { connection, timeout }
 with mail-format {
 subject: [ALERT] $HOST: Riak Service - $EVENT
 message: $DATE
Problem:
$HOST: Riak raised the following event: $EVENT
$DESCRIPTION
 }
 with reminder on 10 cycles
 if failed (url http://localhost:8098/ping and content == '^OK$')
 with timeout 15 seconds
 for 2 times within 5 cycles
 then alert
 if 3 restarts within 5 cycles then alert
 group riak

--
Luke Bakken
Engineer
lbak...@basho.com

On Wed, Jul 8, 2015 at 2:17 PM, Roman Shestakov 
wrote:

&gt; Thanks, but i meant to run as foreground hidden process, without console.
&gt;
&gt; I need to run riak kv under specific process management system which
&gt; controls process live cycle. It cant do it if the process is backgrounded.
&gt;
&gt; I really dont want ti hack the riak runner wrapper so though maybe there
&gt; us sine trick.
&gt;
&gt; But in any case, it seems surprising that this option is missing as a
&gt; standard
&gt;
&gt; Regards, Roman
&gt;
&gt; Sent from my iPhone
&gt;
&gt; On 8 Jul 2015, at 17:54, Cuyler Jones  wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Hi Roman --
&gt;
&gt; If riak is not currently running:
&gt;
&gt; bin/riak console
&gt;
&gt; If riak is currently running:
&gt;
&gt; bin/riak attach
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Wed, Jul 8, 2015 at 9:41 AM, ROMAN SHESTAKOV &lt;
&gt; romanshesta...@yahoo.co.uk&gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; hello,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; is there any way to start RIAK\_KV as a foreground process instead of as a
&gt;&gt; demon process, which is what "bin/riak start” does?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Regards, Roman
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

