---
title: "Re: Create Bucket failed"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2016-07-18T08:09:26-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg17545"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg17544"
author_name: "Luke Bakken"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2016-07-18T08:09:26-07:00
---


Hi Salman,

Please re-read the Riak CS instructions carefully. You \*must\* only
have one Stanchion service running in your entire cluster:

https://docs.basho.com/riak/cs/2.1.1/cookbooks/installing/#installing-stanchion-on-a-node

Based on your latest email, it sounds as though Stanchion is running
on every node.

--
Luke Bakken
Engineer
lbak...@basho.com

On Mon, Jul 18, 2016 at 8:00 AM, Salman Khaleghian  wrote:
&gt; We have 3 servers. One of them failed. And we set it as down server. As I
&gt; know and think it is should not be problem. So i did not mention it and
&gt; focuse on other parts. Today after the server come back suddenly the problem
&gt; was solved. Snachion service was ok on two working server. AND we set that
&gt; node as down.
&gt;
&gt; -------- Original message --------
&gt; From: Luke Bakken 
&gt; Date: 07/18/2016 7:26 PM (GMT+03:30)
&gt; To: Salman Khaleghian 
&gt; Cc: riak-users 
&gt; Subject: Re: Create Bucket failed
&gt;
&gt; Salman -
&gt;
&gt; Please use "reply all" to include the mailing list in the discussion.
&gt;
&gt; This is the first time you have mentioned a "failed server". Can you
&gt; go into more detail? How many servers are in this cluster?
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Luke Bakken
&gt; Engineer
&gt; lbak...@basho.com
&gt;
&gt; On Mon, Jul 18, 2016 at 2:39 AM, Salman Khaleghian 
&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt; Hello
&gt;&gt; After the failed server come back and we add it, the problem was solved.
&gt;&gt; But
&gt;&gt; I do not understand the reason. any idea please.

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

