---
title: "Re: RIAK 1.4.6 - Mass key deletion"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-02-18T07:47:37-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13662"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13661"
author_name: "Matthew Von-Maszewski"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-02-18T07:47:37-08:00
---


Edgar,

The first "concern" I have is that leveldb's delete does not free disk space. 
Others have executed mass delete operations only to discover they are now using 
more disk space instead of less. Here is a discussion of the problem:

https://github.com/basho/leveldb/wiki/mv-aggressive-delete

The link also describes Riak's database operation overhead. This is a second 
"concern". You will need to carefully throttle your delete rate or the 
overhead will likely impact your production throughput.

We have new code to help quicken the actual purge of deleted data in Riak 2.0. 
But that release is not quite ready for production usage.


What do you hope to achieve by the mass delete?

Matthew




On Feb 18, 2014, at 10:29 AM, Edgar Veiga  wrote:

&gt; Sorry, forgot that info!
&gt; 
&gt; It's leveldb.
&gt; 
&gt; Best regards
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On 18 February 2014 15:27, Matthew Von-Maszewski  wrote:
&gt; Which Riak backend are you using: bitcask, leveldb, multi?
&gt; 
&gt; Matthew
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Feb 18, 2014, at 10:17 AM, Edgar Veiga  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; &gt; Hi all!
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; I have a fairly trivial question regarding mass deletion on a riak cluster, 
&gt; &gt; but firstly let me give you just some context. My cluster is running with 
&gt; &gt; riak 1.4.6 on 6 machines with a ring of 256 nodes and 1Tb ssd disks.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; I need to execute a massive object deletion on a bucket, I'm talking of ~1 
&gt; &gt; billion keys (The object average size is ~1Kb). I will not retrive the keys 
&gt; &gt; from riak because a I have a file with all of them. I'll just start a 
&gt; &gt; script that reads them from the file and triggers an HTTP DELETE for each 
&gt; &gt; one.
&gt; &gt; The cluster will continue running on production with a quite high load 
&gt; &gt; serving all other applications, while running this deletion.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; My question is simple, do I need to have any kind of extra concerns 
&gt; &gt; regarding this action? Do you advise me on taking special attention to any 
&gt; &gt; kind of metrics regarding riak or event the servers where it's running?
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Best regards!
&gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; 

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

