---
title: "RE: aggregate query"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-11-11T07:21:49-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12931"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12930"
author_name: "Mark A. Basil, Jr."
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-11-11T07:21:49-08:00
---


Operate on the data locally, validating the decryption process as a final
step after the re-encrypted value is put back into the db.

 

Also, you don't have to do it all in one step. Pull a list of keys down,
break them up, and test your batch job on a small portion. If you're
concerned with data loss, ensure you haven't lost any before you delete the
updated value locally.

 

The most efficient way to have set up your map would be a bucket to map the
keyname to the thing it's encrypted.

Alternatively, you could have added a keys bucket that uses Links which
would relate the key name to the thing that was encrypted by it.

 

Lastly, it seems strange that your concerns with data loss are related to
how you'll be pulling the list of keys which need updated. They really
shouldn't be related. 

 

-m

 

 

 

From: riak-users [mailto:riak-users-boun...@lists.basho.com] On Behalf Of
Ron Pastore
Sent: Monday, November 11, 2013 9:42 AM
To: riak-users@lists.basho.com
Subject: aggregate query

 

Hi All,

I posted this question to Stack Overflow a few days back but not much luck.
Hoping someone here has some thoughts. 

I have a use case for an aggregate query across the entire db and all
buckets, I'm wondering the best query method to use, leaning towards
multiple secondary index calls. This won't be a frequently used feature,
possibly invoked once a week or so via scheduled job or something.

Some records have a value in their meta attribute that I'd like to
match/target for the selection. After the selection I'll need to update
those records. 

&gt;From what I've read, secondary index looks great but it is limited to a
single bucket? I also saw "list buckets", which has warnings about
production use, though not sure if that's applicable to such infrequently
used functionality. Thought maybe i could list buckets then perform the
secondary index query on each.

Is there a better way? MapReduce seems heavy, having to load every KV off
the file system. Search seem possible too but index setup/maintenance seems
overkill if there's an easier way.

UPDATE: i went ahead with a Search index but am now second guessing that.
This lookup will be part of an encryption key rotation, where we'll be
finding certain values from Riak that are encrypted with a given key then
re-encrypting with a new key. So, if there are discrepancies or failed
operations between the actual encrypted values and the search index, there
is a potential for data loss, as we'll be discarding keys once rotated. 

 

Sorry for the long winded description. Any help would be greatly
appreciated. 

 

 

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

