---
title: "Re: simplest way to log/trace queries?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-10-01T17:23:58-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12446"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12445"
author_name: "OJ Reeves"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-10-01T17:23:58-07:00
---


Hello Alex,

CI doesn't currently have a loggin facility which supports this, I am sorry to 
say. I agree this would indeed be handy.

Jeremiah and I have discussed the possibility of wiring in the likes of Log4net 
or NLog to support various levels and types of logging, but we haven't yet 
managed to find the time to do so.

Bear in mind that adding this kind of logging does have impact on various 
things, including performance, and unfortunately isn't as simple as just 
putting something at the exit points because most of the traffic is PBC-encoded.

May I request that you open a ticket on our github repo[1] to kick off a public 
discussion about this so that we can find a way of moving forward that's 
suitable?

Many thanks.
OJ

[1]: https://github.com/DistributedNonsense/CorrugatedIron



On 02/10/2013, at 10:16 AM, Alex Rice  wrote:

&gt; Hi all, I am using C# corrugatedIron client. I would like to get a
&gt; verbose log of all of my Riak queries and calls. To help during
&gt; development. Whether it's on the client side, or on the server side
&gt; (maybe some lager settings in app.config?) doesnt matter. I have been
&gt; searching for a way to get this type of log output but seems to be
&gt; stumped. Thanks,
&gt; Alex
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com



signature.asc
Description: Message signed with OpenPGP using GPGMail
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

