---
title: "Re: Riak DT refresh"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2016-05-17T02:47:06-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg17380"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg17379"
author_name: "Russell Brown"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2016-05-17T02:47:06-07:00
---


On 17 May 2016, at 09:19, Benoit Chesneau  wrote:

&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Tue, May 17, 2016 at 10:15 AM Russell Brown  wrote:
&gt; There’ll still be the need of a version vector, yes. Any advice/contribution 
&gt; on optimisations there greatly appreciated, thanks.
&gt; 
&gt; maybe moving to SWC?
&gt; https://github.com/ricardobcl/ServerWideClocks

I don’t think server wide clocks is the way to go for a library like riak\_dt. 
It imposes too much in terms of the system. I also think ServerWideClocks, 
while very interesting and promising, have some pretty hard unanswered 
questions still. For riak\_dt I tried not to impose a system model, so maybe 
every actor is a replica, or maybe there is a server, or set of servers. But 
this does need documenting.

&gt; 
&gt; would be good in systems where you have a lot of nodes going in and out in 
&gt; the topology.

How do serverwideclocks help with high membership churn?

&gt; 
&gt; For me a must have would be a clear documentation on how using riak\_dt, what 
&gt; to share with the client, how/when to merge etc... It would maybe attract 
&gt; more users too. Going threw the code is quite painful :)

I agree, this is something that is required. Things like when to use deferred 
operations and a context etc are all absent. I hope to spend some time on this 
soon. But yes. I will add that to the list of things that are needed to bring 
some love to riak\_dt.

Cheers

Russell

&gt; 
&gt; - benoit
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On 17 May 2016, at 09:05, Sargun Dhillon  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; &gt; Is the plan to keep using riak\_dt\_vclock? If so, I might contribute
&gt; &gt; some optimizations for large numbers of actor entries (1000s).
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; On Thu, Apr 28, 2016 at 12:55 AM, Russell Brown  
&gt; &gt; wrote:
&gt; &gt;&gt; Hi,
&gt; &gt;&gt; Riak DT[1] is in need of some love. I know that some of you on this list 
&gt; &gt;&gt; (Sargun, are you here? Heinz?) have expressed opinions on the work that 
&gt; &gt;&gt; needs doing. Here is my short list, I would love to hear opinions on 
&gt; &gt;&gt; priority, and any additions to this list:
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; 1. merger smaller map branch
&gt; &gt;&gt; 2. deltas
&gt; &gt;&gt; 3. new data types (we have a range register and some and 
&gt; &gt;&gt; Multi-Value-Register to add, any more?)
&gt; &gt;&gt; 4. Internal state as records or maps (but not these messy tuples)
&gt; &gt;&gt; 5. update to rebar3
&gt; &gt;&gt; 6. update to latest erlang
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; I’m pretty sure there is plenty more. Would greatly appreciate your 
&gt; &gt;&gt; feedback.
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; Many thanks
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; Russell
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; [1] https://github.com/basho/riak\_dt/
&gt; &gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

