---
title: "Re: Secondary index reverse sort"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-07-31T05:40:11-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11840"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg11838"
author_name: "Lucas Cooper"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-07-31T05:40:11-07:00
---


That should work well in development for my application actually. Thanks
for the tip!

On Wed, Jul 31, 2013 at 10:26 PM, Jon Meredith  wrote:

&gt; As a workaround, you can always store (2^31 - timestamp) as an additional
&gt; index and use that when you need to do the reverse retrieval. Beware 2038.
&gt;
&gt; Jon
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Wed, Jul 31, 2013 at 1:07 PM, Lucas Cooper wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; I'm happy to wait, it isn't urgently needed as my project is still in
&gt;&gt; development.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I'd contribute myself if I was confident at all programming in Erlang but
&gt;&gt; I'm still just getting into declarative languages at the moment :)
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Wed, Jul 31, 2013 at 10:03 PM, Russell Brown wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Hi Lucas,
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; I'm sorry, as easy as it would have been to add with the latest changes,
&gt;&gt;&gt; we just ran out of time.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; It is something I'd love to add in future. Or maybe something a
&gt;&gt;&gt; contributor could add? (Happy to advise / review.)
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Many thanks
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Russell
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; On 31 Jul 2013, at 02:04, Lucas Cooper  wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; I've seen that the results of secondary index queries are sorted on
&gt;&gt;&gt; index values by default.
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; I was wondering if there's something I'm missing that would allow me
&gt;&gt;&gt; to fetch those keys but reverse sorted.
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; I have indexes based on UNIX timestamps and I'd like to grab the most
&gt;&gt;&gt; recent keys.
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; I'd like this query to be running on demand so I'd like to avoid
&gt;&gt;&gt; MapReduce if at all possible.
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Jon Meredith
&gt; VP, Engineering
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; jmered...@basho.com
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

