---
title: "Fwd: Riak CS"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-07-19T21:06:07-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14512"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14487"
author_name: "Mohan Radhakrishnan"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-07-19T21:06:07-07:00
---


Thanks Kelly. Could you point out some practical use cases that Riak
supports in production systems ? I have viewed webinars and podcasts that
describe distributed computing patterns in detail.


Mohan


On Wed, Jul 16, 2014 at 3:00 AM, Kelly McLaughlin  wrote:

&gt; Mohan,
&gt;
&gt; I might be a bit confused on what your intent is, but it sounds like your
&gt; task is to download a large group of files from S3 for processing and you
&gt; are considering Riak CS for that processing work. If that is the case I am
&gt; not sure Riak CS is the right fit for that job. Riak itself has a map
&gt; reduce system built into it, but that is not exposed by Riak CS. Currently,
&gt; Riak CS is strictly for storage and not data processing. If that is your
&gt; need you might be better off looking at tools built for data processing
&gt; like Spark or Hadoop.
&gt;
&gt; Kelly
&gt;
&gt; On July 11, 2014 at 10:13:35 PM, Mohan Radhakrishnan (
&gt; radhakrishnan.mo...@gmail.com) wrote:
&gt;
&gt; I thought the general idea floating in my ignorant mind can help. We have
&gt; other storage systems apart from S3 like FTPS, HTTPS etc. I thought the
&gt; task of crawling remote storage systems and processing files naturally lent
&gt; itself to distributed MR jobs and a DFS.
&gt;
&gt; That is when I came across Riak CS.
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; Mohan
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Sat, Jul 12, 2014 at 9:32 AM, Mohan Radhakrishnan &lt;
&gt; radhakrishnan.mo...@gmail.com&gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi,
&gt;&gt; I came across the storage system discussion thread. We have
&gt;&gt; a requirement to download thousands of files from S3 for processing. Ours
&gt;&gt; is not a cloud storage system but a cloud access system.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Are there qualities of Riak CS that can help us ? We want to download
&gt;&gt; part of a huge file and checkpoint if the connection breaks. File downloads
&gt;&gt; should be fault-tolerant when nodes go down.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Please bear with me if my question is basic. I don't work with
&gt;&gt; distributed cloud storage systems.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt; Mohan
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

