---
title: "Re: Yokozuna 0.8.0 release on omnios - no Yokozuna, no Riak Control"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-08-14T15:53:57-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12039"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12038"
author_name: "Christopher Meiklejohn"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-08-14T15:53:57-07:00
---


Hi Dave, 

Can you provide the tag, or SHA, that you've built Riak from?

- Chris 

-- 
Christopher Meiklejohn
Software Engineer
Basho Technologies, Inc.



On Wednesday, August 14, 2013 at 3:45 PM, Dave Martorana wrote:

&gt; Hi all,
&gt; 
&gt; I have Riak building on omnios, with Erlang R15B02, and Oracle JDK 1.7.0\_25.
&gt; 
&gt; Everything appears to be building just fine. However... even though I have 
&gt; Yokozuna and Riak Control enabled in my app.config, neither are able to be 
&gt; used or - it seems - start up. I can confirm that kv is working fine. 
&gt; 
&gt; app.config: https://gist.github.com/themartorana/eb503f1d7fca798fc6c3 
&gt; console.log: https://gist.github.com/themartorana/7c517c0ba5549c35540a
&gt; 
&gt; Oddly, console.log doesn't show any mention of Riak Control. It does show the 
&gt; startup line for Solr at the end. However, the webapp only has the following 
&gt; links: 
&gt; 
&gt; riak\_kv\_wm\_buckets
&gt; riak\_kv\_wm\_buckets
&gt; riak\_kv\_wm\_counter
&gt; riak\_kv\_wm\_index
&gt; riak\_kv\_wm\_keylist
&gt; riak\_kv\_wm\_link\_walker
&gt; riak\_kv\_wm\_link\_walker
&gt; riak\_kv\_wm\_mapred
&gt; riak\_kv\_wm\_object
&gt; riak\_kv\_wm\_object
&gt; riak\_kv\_wm\_ping
&gt; riak\_kv\_wm\_props
&gt; riak\_kv\_wm\_stats
&gt; 
&gt; There is no admin/control, and no yz. Any attempt to link to /yz/\* or /admin 
&gt; results in a 404. 
&gt; 
&gt; I'm at a bit of a loss. There is nothing in error.log or crash.log. 
&gt; yokozuna.jar builds fine. Riak Control appears to be built fine. 
&gt; 
&gt; Any thoughts?
&gt; 
&gt; Cheers,
&gt; 
&gt; Dave 
&gt; 
&gt; P.S. - I have also built the git rz-yz-merge-1.4.0 branch of the riak repo on 
&gt; github just to be sure. Same result. Building Riak from master - while 
&gt; obviously not having Yokozuna - does have Riak Control enabled. Thanks! 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com




\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

