---
title: "Re: Riak Core: VNodes of different flavors"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2017-06-09T12:05:20-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg18262"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg18261"
author_name: "Russell Brown"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2017-06-09T12:05:20-07:00
---


Hi Lloyd,


On 9 Jun 2017, at 19:16, Lloyd R. Prentice  wrote:

&gt; Hello,
&gt; 
&gt; A number of definitions and explanations of VNodes can be found in various 
&gt; sites on the web. I think I have a somewhat fuzzy understanding of VNodes 
&gt; and how they are replicated around the ring in a Riak Core cluster. 
&gt; 
&gt; Slide 11 in the slide deck below shows "Your App" resting on top of Riak Core 
&gt; and around Riak KV:
&gt; 
&gt; https://www.slideshare.net/mobile/argv0/riak-coredevnation
&gt; 
&gt; What's not clear to me is, if "Your App" has multiple functionalities or 
&gt; services, how are these different functionalities mapped to VNodes?
&gt; 
&gt; For instance, say one functionality requires user input, another obtains a 
&gt; value from a sensor, another computes and stores a second value, and yet 
&gt; another graphs and displays those values to the user. 
&gt; 
&gt; How is a system such as this mapped to VNodes in Riak Core--- all wrapped 
&gt; into a single VNode implementation or parsed across VNodes of different type 
&gt; or functionality and all replicated in the same ring? 

It’s really up to you. It makes sense if you have multiple separate units of 
work to have multiple vnodes. RiakKV (the database) has vnodes for 
reading/writing data, and other vnodes (riak\_pipe vnodes) for map/reduce, for 
example. If you look at Ryan Zezeski’s seminal and still relevant TryTryTry 
blog series, you’ll see it has different vnodes for different tasks 
(https://github.com/rzezeski/try-try-try.)

Cheers

Russell

&gt; 
&gt; Many thanks,
&gt; 
&gt; LRP
&gt; 
&gt; Sent from my iPad
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

