---
title: "Re: Cluster Leave Behaviour Appears Dependent On Node Leaving?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-03-27T15:08:57-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10607"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg10601"
author_name: "Matt Black"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-03-27T15:08:57-07:00
---


I believe this is to do with the distribution of data across your cluster.

Your data will spread evenly across 2n nodes (4, 8, 16) - so with six nodes
your data is spread unevenly and you will different plans depending which
node is asked to leave.

This command will show you the percentage data spread across the cluster:

riak-admin member\_status


On 27 March 2013 22:25, Ralph Williams  wrote:

&gt; We have a six node riak cluster and have been testing the situation
&gt; where one node is removed using the "riak-admin cluster leave" command.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Depending on which server is requested to leave, a different plan can
&gt; result. The difference lies in the amount of data handoffs occurring
&gt; between the nodes which remain in the cluster.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Is there a simple explanation for this?
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; I have already read http://lists.basho.com/pipermail/riak-
&gt; users\_lists.basho.com/2012-April/008195.html
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; The information included in this email and any files transmitted with it
&gt; may contain information that is confidential and it must not be used by, or
&gt; its contents or attachments copied or disclosed, to persons other than the
&gt; intended addressee. If you have received this email in error, please notify
&gt; BJSS. In the absence of written agreement to the contrary BJSS' relevant
&gt; standard terms of contract for any work to be undertaken will apply. Please
&gt; carry out virus or such other checks as you consider appropriate in respect
&gt; of this email. BJSS do not accept responsibility for any adverse effect
&gt; upon your system or data in relation to this email or any files transmitted
&gt; with it. BJSS Limited, a company registered in England and Wales (Company
&gt; Number 2777575), VAT Registration Number 613295452, Registered Office
&gt; Address, First Floor, Coronet House, Queen Street, Leeds, LS1 2TW
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

