---
title: "Re: +zdbbl recommended value"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-07-15T07:59:17-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11530"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg11529"
author_name: "Kelly McLaughlin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-07-15T07:59:17-07:00
---


Hi Guido. The docs section you referenced is for RiakCS. We do recommend a
substantially higher value for zdbbl when using RiakCS because the object
data being stored is divided into 1MB chunks which is still a relatively
large object size for Riak to handle. Riak used by itself may not need the
value to be that large, but it may benefit depending on the size of objects
you are storing. If you do decide to increase the value beyond 16384, just
proceed with caution and make sure you have enough memory to support the
increased setting.

Kelly


On Mon, Jul 15, 2013 at 8:38 AM, Guido Medina wrote:

&gt; Hi,
&gt;
&gt; We had an issue in 1.4 where 2i operations were timing out, after going
&gt; through support we were suggested to use "+zdbbl 16384", on the
&gt; "Configuring Riak Docs" it is strongly suggested (unless doc need to be
&gt; re-phrased) it should be higher:
&gt;
&gt; \*Source:\*
&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riakcs/latest/cookbooks/configuration/Configuring-Riak/
&gt;
&gt; At the end of such doc there is the following fragment and we would like
&gt; to know if there is a kind of all situations balanced value and the
&gt; implications:
&gt; Performance & Capacity settings
&gt;
&gt; It is strongly recommended that the following values be set in the Riak
&gt; vm.args configuration file, which is located in the /etc/riak or
&gt; /opt/riak/etc folder.
&gt;
&gt; ## This setting is not present in default Riak installations, so## it should 
&gt; be added. In some cases, a value of 128000 may be## appropriate.
&gt; +zdbbl 96000
&gt; ## This setting is present in default Riak installations, so## its value 
&gt; should be edited.
&gt; -env ERL\_MAX\_PORTS 16384
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Kind regards,
&gt;
&gt; Guido.
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

