---
title: "Re: Query on Riak Search in a cluster of 3 nodes behind ELB is giving	different result everytime"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-04-01T01:07:18-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15942"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15940"
author_name: "Vitaliy E"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-04-01T01:07:18-07:00
---


Hi Alex,

riak-admin member-status is the command

(N - 1) nodes were showing all N nodes as part of the cluster, but "Ring
Ready: false" at the same time. One node was showing just itself in
"risk-admin member-status". Strangely, when shut down its status was
reflected in the admin console of the cluster, but no replication was done
so I'm sure it wasn't working together with the rest of the nodes.

Repaired by joining the cluster as if it was never attempted before:

riak-admin cluster join 
riak-admin cluster plan
riak-admin cluster commit

Regards,
Vitaliy



On Wed, Apr 1, 2015 at 10:54 AM, Alex De la rosa 
wrote:

&gt; Hi Vitaliy,
&gt;
&gt; How did you find out a node in the cluster was not part in the cluster?
&gt; any commands to check that? And then, how did you fix that? (Just curious
&gt; and for future references)
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; Alex
&gt;
&gt; On Wed, Apr 1, 2015 at 9:50 AM, Vitaliy E &lt;13vitam...@gmail.com&gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hello everyone,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I've just joined the list, and am a bit late to the party. Sorry about
&gt;&gt; that. Thought I would contribute an answer anyway.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Santi, what is you n\_val?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I observed the behavior you are describing on Riak 2.0.0 with n\_val=3 in
&gt;&gt; two cases:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; 1. One of the nodes was not part of the cluster although the cluster was
&gt;&gt; thinking it was. Don't ask me how that happened. Obviously, when a request
&gt;&gt; hit that node part of the entries could not be found there.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; 2. Look for indexing errors in Solr console and Riak logs. Each Riak node
&gt;&gt; has its own Solr "repository", so if an entry fails to be indexed on any of
&gt;&gt; them, search results will be inconsistent depending on which set of nodes
&gt;&gt; returns it. Let's say you have replicas on nodes A, B, and C. Entry X
&gt;&gt; failed to be indexed on A, entry Y failed to be indexed on A and B, and
&gt;&gt; entry Z was indexed OK on all nodes. Then you may get {X,Y,Z}, {X,Z}, or
&gt;&gt; {Z} as your search results.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; In our case the indexing failures were caused by disk/filesystem errors.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Regards,
&gt;&gt; Vitaly
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

