---
title: "Re: Object not found after successful PUT on S3 API"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2017-01-25T06:47:01-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg17876"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg17875"
author_name: "Luke Bakken"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2017-01-25T06:47:01-08:00
---


Hi Daniel -

This is a strange scenario. I recommend looking at all of the log
files for "[error]" or other entries at about the same time as these
PUTs or 404 responses.

Is there anything unusual about the key being used?
--
Luke Bakken
Engineer
lbak...@basho.com


On Wed, Jan 25, 2017 at 6:40 AM, Daniel Miller  wrote:
&gt; I have a 9-node Riak CS cluster that has been working flawlessly for about 3
&gt; months. The cluster configuration, including backend and bucket parameters
&gt; such as N-value are using default settings. I'm using the S3 API to
&gt; communicate with the cluster.
&gt;
&gt; Within the past week I had an issue where two objects were PUT resulting in
&gt; a 200 (success) response, but all subsequent GET requests for those two keys
&gt; return status of 404 (not found). Other than the fact that they are now
&gt; missing, there was nothing out of the ordinary with these particular to
&gt; PUTs. Maybe I'm missing something, but this seems like a scenario that
&gt; should never happen. All information included here about PUTs and GETs comes
&gt; from reviewing the CS access logs. Both objects were PUT on the same node,
&gt; however GET requests returning 404 have been observed on all nodes. There is
&gt; plenty of other traffic on the cluster involving GETs and PUTs that are not
&gt; failing. I'm unsure of how to troubleshoot further to find out what may have
&gt; happened to those objects and why they are now missing. What is the best
&gt; approach to figure out why an object that was successfully PUT seems to be
&gt; missing?
&gt;
&gt; Thanks!
&gt; Daniel Miller
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

