---
title: "design a read-only data storage cluster"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-12-21T01:14:39-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13318"
author_name: "Damien Krotkine"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-12-21T01:14:39-08:00
---


Hi,

I'm trying to use Riak for - basically - a short-lived data storage
system. Here are my prerequisites:

- keys will contain a timestamp and some properties. I can work on
making them short
- values will be binary blobs. From few bytes to few MB
- values are read-only : once written they are never updated or
overwritten
- key/values are constantly being added
- items should expire after some times, few weeks if we can afford the
disk space
- keys should be indexed using 2i to be found via different aspects
- if possible I'd like to be able to use normal HD, and avoid having to
use expensive SSDs

My Questions:
- what kind of backend to use ? should I use multibackend?
- It's the first time I use Riak for strongly date/time related
read-only keys. Are there any tips & tricks?

First option is to use leveldb as storage backend. And use an external
script to expire (delete) keys that are too old (one of the secondary
index being the timestamp, it's easy). However it seems that deleted
keys in leveldb may not be claimed before a very long time, and some
tests showed that real space used by the ring tend to always grow (space
never reclamied?) and I've seen some threads about this lately.

Second option would be to use multibackend, and one leveldb bucket that
would only serve at indexing keys, and a bitcask backend to store the
data. The number of keys is small enough that we can have them twice,
and they should fit in memory for bitcask. I've read that using bitcask
for big values is not recommended because file merging process would
take a lot of time. However it seems that these merging issues wouldn't
happen for values that are never updated/rewritten. The advantage of
using bitcask would be to have automatic expiration.

I'm maybe completely wrong about some (all) of my assumption, and that's
why I'm seeking advices on this mailing list. Do you have any ideas on
how to build such system . Maybe some of you have built a very similar
one ?

Thanks,

dams.

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

