---
title: "RE: Understanding read_repairs"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-02-22T09:28:40-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10210"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg10199"
author_name: "Belai Beshah"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-02-22T09:28:40-08:00
---


Thanks Russel, that looks like exactly the problem we saw. I have never built 
riak from source before but I will give it a try it this weekend.

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
From: Russell Brown [russell.br...@me.com]
Sent: Friday, February 22, 2013 1:24 AM
To: Belai Beshah
Cc: riak-users@lists.basho.com
Subject: Re: Understanding read\_repairs

Hi,
Thanks for trying Riak.

On 21 Feb 2013, at 23:48, Belai Beshah  wrote:

&gt; Hi All,
&gt;
&gt; We are evaluating Riak to see if it can be used to cache large blobs of data. 
&gt; Here is our test cluster setup:
&gt;
&gt; • six Ubuntu LTS 12.04 dedicated nodes with 8 core 2.6 Ghz CPU, 32 GB 
&gt; RAM, 3.6T disk
&gt; • {pb\_backlog, 64},
&gt; • {ring\_creation\_size, 256},
&gt; • {default\_bucket\_props, [{n\_val, 2}, 
&gt; {allow\_mult,false},{last\_write\_wins,true}]},
&gt; • using bitcask as the backend
&gt;
&gt; Everything else default except the above. There is an HAProxy load balancer 
&gt; infront of the nodes that the clients talk too configured according to the 
&gt; basho wiki. Due to the nature of the application we are integrating we do 
&gt; about 1200/s writes of approximately 40-50KB each and read them back almost 
&gt; immediately. We noticed a lot of read repairs and since that was one of the 
&gt; things that could indicate performance problem we go worried. So we wrote a 
&gt; simple java client application that simulates our use case. The test program 
&gt; is dead simple:
&gt; • generate keys using random UUID and value using Apache commons 
&gt; RandomStringUtils
&gt; • create a thread pool of 5 and store key/value using “bucket.store()”
&gt; • read the values back using “bucket.fetch()” multiple times
&gt; I could provide the spike code if needed. What we noticed is that we get a 
&gt; lot of read repairs all over the place. We even made it use a single thread 
&gt; to read/write, played with the write/read quorum and even put a delay of 5 
&gt; minutes between the writes before the reads start to give the cluster time to 
&gt; be eventually consistent. Nothing helps, we always see a lot of read repairs, 
&gt; sometime as many as the number of inserts.


It sounds like you are experiencing this bug 
https://github.com/basho/riak\_kv/pull/334

It is fixed in master, but it doesn't look like it made it into 1.3.0. If 
you're ok with building from source, I tried it and a patch from 
8895d2877576af2441bee755028df1a6cf2174c7 goes cleanly onto 1.3.0.

Cheers

Russell


&gt; The good thing is that in all of these tests we have not seen any read 
&gt; failures. Performance is also not bad, a few maxs here and there we don't 
&gt; like but 90% looks good. Even when we killed a node, the reads are still 
&gt; successful.
&gt;
&gt; We are wondering what the expected ratio of read repairs is and what is a 
&gt; reasonable time for the cluster not to restore to read\_repair to fulfill a 
&gt; read request or is there something we are missing in our setup.
&gt;
&gt; Thanks
&gt; Belai
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

