---
title: "Re: cuttlefish"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-10-29T08:21:19-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16717"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16713"
author_name: "Luke Bakken"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-10-29T08:21:19-07:00
---


Hi Michael,

I'm figuring this out as I go as well. I searched for "riak.conf"
(https://github.com/basho/riak/search?q=riak.conf) and got a hit here:

https://github.com/basho/riak/blob/develop/rel/rebar.config

I suspect this configuration is what causes "riak.conf" to be
generated at build time, via this code:

https://github.com/basho/cuttlefish/blob/develop/src/cuttlefish\_rebar\_plugin.erl

--
Luke Bakken
Engineer
lbak...@basho.com

On Thu, Oct 29, 2015 at 8:12 AM, Michael Martin  wrote:
&gt; Hi Luke,
&gt;
&gt; Thanks for the quick reply.
&gt;
&gt; I've been throught the "Cuttlefish-for-Erlang-Developers" doc a couple of
&gt; times now.
&gt; I must be missing something.
&gt;
&gt; The main README states:
&gt;
&gt; "When we build Riak, Cuttlefish generates a riak.conf file that contains the
&gt; default shipping configuration of Riak. When a script to start Riak is run,
&gt; a Cuttlefish escript is spun up, reads the riak.conf file and combines that
&gt; with the Schema to generate an app.config."
&gt;
&gt; But I see no reference to how I make Cuttlefish generate my script, nor
&gt; where to find the Cuttlefish escript that reads
&gt; the .conf file and generates the app.config. I don't see this information in
&gt; the Wiki, either.
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; Michael
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On 10/29/2015 09:55 AM, Luke Bakken wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Hi Michael,
&gt;
&gt; This wiki page may be of interest:
&gt; https://github.com/basho/cuttlefish/wiki/Cuttlefish-for-Erlang-Developers
&gt;
&gt; After cuttlefish loads and processes your schemas, the variables and
&gt; values are available via Erlang's standard application:get\_env()
&gt; function as though they were loaded from the regular configuration
&gt; file.
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Luke Bakken
&gt; Engineer
&gt; lbak...@basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Thu, Oct 29, 2015 at 6:38 AM, Michael Martin 
&gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Hi folks,
&gt;
&gt; Sorry if this is the wrong venue for cuttlefish questions - please 302 me to
&gt; the right place if need be.
&gt;
&gt; I would like to use cuttlefish in my application, but can't see how to hook
&gt; it in. Doing the schemas is
&gt; quite obvious - I have a small set of mappings ready to go. I just don't see
&gt; in the cuttlefish docs how
&gt; to make my application cuttlefish-aware.
&gt;
&gt; Any pointers would be greatly appreciated.
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; Michael
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

