---
title: "Re: Can't create a user"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-06-30T23:47:28-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11360"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg11359"
author_name: "Christopher Meiklejohn"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-06-30T23:47:28-07:00
---


I'm happy to help if you can email me (direct, please) your app.config files 
from riak-cs-control, stanchion, and riak-cs. 

- Chris 

-- 
Christopher Meiklejohn
Software Engineer
Basho Technologies, Inc.



On Monday, July 1, 2013 at 2:38 AM, Guy Morton wrote:

&gt; Is there anyone you know in Melbourne Australia who might be able to help us?
&gt; 
&gt; I'm sure all my issues are config related, and maybe exacerbated by the fact 
&gt; that I am setting up a single node and the docs seem often to assume you have 
&gt; more than one? So it gets confusing how it should be configured, just to get 
&gt; started with a single node.
&gt; 
&gt; --
&gt; Guy Morton
&gt; Web Development Manager
&gt; Brüel & Kjær EMS
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; From: Christopher Meiklejohn [cmeiklej...@basho.com 
&gt; (mailto:cmeiklej...@basho.com)]
&gt; Sent: Monday, 1 July 2013 4:17 PM
&gt; To: Guy Morton
&gt; Cc: riak-users@lists.basho.com (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
&gt; Subject: Re: Can't create a user
&gt; 
&gt; Eek, that's no good. It appears that we should have better error handling for 
&gt; this.
&gt; 
&gt; My first thought is that the proxy is not configured for your Riak CS 
&gt; hostname in the riak-cs-control configuration file. Can you verify that the 
&gt; app.config contains the same proxy configuration as the app.config for your 
&gt; Riak CS installation?
&gt; 
&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riakcs/latest/references/appendices/RiakCS-Control/
&gt; 
&gt; - Chris
&gt; 
&gt; --
&gt; Christopher Meiklejohn
&gt; Software Engineer
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Monday, July 1, 2013 at 2:11 AM, Guy Morton wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; &gt; I am going to s3.myriakcs.com:8000/#/users/new 
&gt; &gt; (http://s3.myriakcs.com:8000/#/users/new) and trying to create a user. I 
&gt; &gt; get an error and this appears in /var/log/riak-cs-control/error.log:
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 2013-06-30 23:01:35.201 [error] &lt;0.10941.0&gt; webmachine error: path="/users"
&gt; &gt; {"create\_path not a 
&gt; &gt; string",{error,{error,badarg,[{erlang,binary\_to\_list,[undefined],[]},{riak\_cs\_control\_wm\_users,extract\_key\_id,1,[{file,"src/riak\_cs\_control\_wm\_users.erl"},{line,60}]},{riak\_cs\_control\_wm\_users,create\_path,2,[{file,"src/riak\_cs\_control\_wm\_users.erl"},{line,68}]},{webmachine\_resource,resource\_call,3,[{file,"src/webmachine\_resource.erl"},{line,183}]},{webmachine\_resource,do,3,[{file,"src/webmachine\_resource.erl"},{line,141}]},{webmachine\_decision\_core,resource\_call,1,[{file,"src/webmachine\_decision\_core.erl"},{line,48}]},{webmachine\_decision\_core,decision,1,[{file,"src/webmachine\_decision\_core.erl"},{line,440}]},{webmachine\_decision\_core,handle\_request,2,[{file,"src/webmachine\_decision\_core.erl"},{line,33}]}]}}}
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; Any ideas?
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; --
&gt; &gt; Guy Morton
&gt; &gt; Web Development Manager
&gt; &gt; Brüel & Kjær EMS
&gt; &gt; This e-mail is confidential and may be read, copied and used only by the 
&gt; &gt; intended recipient. If you have received it in error, please contact the 
&gt; &gt; sender immediately by return e-mail. Please then delete the e-mail and do 
&gt; &gt; not disclose its contents to any other person.
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; This e-mail is confidential and may be read, copied and used only by the 
&gt; intended recipient. If you have received it in error, please contact the 
&gt; sender immediately by return e-mail. Please then delete the e-mail and do not 
&gt; disclose its contents to any other person. 



\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

