---
title: "Re: 1.4 or 2.0?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-02-15T10:24:05-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13656"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13655"
author_name: "Massimiliano Ciancio"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-02-15T10:24:05-08:00
---


Ok, so the path from 1.4 to 2.0 will be easier than that from 2.0pre to
2.0; and this means that it's better to stay with 1.4 for now....
Many thanks!
Bye

MC
Il 15/feb/2014 19:09 "John Daily"  ha scritto:

&gt; I strongly recommend sticking with the 1.4 series until 2.0 is formally
&gt; released.
&gt;
&gt; The 2.0 features are great, but making certain that upgrades will go
&gt; smoothly is a top priority for every major release of Riak, and this will
&gt; be no exception. You can upgrade when the time is right for your needs.
&gt; (And I don't want to speak for the engineering team, but I'd wager that no
&gt; one is placing a great deal of emphasis on testing upgrades from 2.0
&gt; pre-releases to 2.0 itself.)
&gt;
&gt; With regard to the Python client: it does not yet support 2.0 features,
&gt; but that should change soon. It's under active development.
&gt;
&gt; -John
&gt;
&gt; On Feb 15, 2014, at 12:40 PM, Massimiliano Ciancio &lt;
&gt; massimili...@ciancio.net&gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt; &gt; Hi all,
&gt; &gt; I've a big question... if you have to go in production in the next two
&gt; &gt; months (about at the half/end of April) you use Riak 1.4 or 2.0 pre-x
&gt; &gt; ???
&gt; &gt; How hard will it be to upgrade from 1.4 to 2.0?
&gt; &gt; At the moment I don't need new features (crdt) of 2.0 version. Maybe
&gt; &gt; only new simpler configuration will be useful.
&gt; &gt; More important: I'm using the python client: does it work with 2.0?
&gt; &gt; Thanks
&gt; &gt; Massimiliano
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

