---
title: "Re: Ansible galaxy roles only support three-year-old Ubuntu 12.04"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-05-27T09:53:13-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16161"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16160"
author_name: "Matthew Brender"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-05-27T09:53:13-07:00
---


I should also note that I removed our ansible-galaxy roles from the
Basho account [1] because I found it wasn't in a healthy enough state
to put out there. If the collective group of Toby, J and Christopher
bring this up-to-date, we can get this back online. I'd feel confident
doing so once we have at least one public maintainer.

[1] https://galaxy.ansible.com/list#/users/1531

Matt Brender | Developer Advocacy Lead
Basho Technologies
t: @mjbrender
c: +1 617.817.3195


On Wed, May 27, 2015 at 9:40 AM, Johan Sommerfeld  wrote:
&gt; Hi,
&gt;
&gt; I'm using the ansible role as well, and would love to help as well.
&gt;
&gt; I've just started to look at the v2 branch to try and prepare for
&gt; rolling upgrade from 1.4 to 2.0/2.1.
&gt;
&gt; /J
&gt;
&gt; On 27 May 2015 at 18:34, Matthew Brender  wrote:
&gt;&gt; Hey Toby,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; While I'm not thrilled our role is out of date, I'm excited to hear
&gt;&gt; you care. We're actively looking for a maintainer of the Ansible Riak
&gt;&gt; repo [1]. A quick review of the branching shows that it's a little
&gt;&gt; wild west in there.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; If you're game to step up as the maintainer, I'd love to sync up with
&gt;&gt; you. We have some great resources (people and existing code) and we're
&gt;&gt; in need of someone who wants to curate them all.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; [1] https://github.com/basho-labs/ansible-riak
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Matt Brender | Developer Advocacy Lead
&gt;&gt; Basho Technologies
&gt;&gt; t: @mjbrender
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Wed, May 27, 2015 at 5:24 AM, Christopher Mancini  
&gt;&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt; Hi Toby,
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; I am actually working on a rewrite of the Galaxy role that we used to have
&gt;&gt;&gt; up there to be simpler and support all of the 2.x features of Riak. You can
&gt;&gt;&gt; access it here: https://github.com/basho-labs/ansible-riak/tree/dev-2.x
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; I would greatly appreciate any feedback, suggestions as well as any
&gt;&gt;&gt; contributions you may have from your testing on Ubuntu / Debian, since I am
&gt;&gt;&gt; using it with CentOS7 and may not have time to test it with Ubuntu for a
&gt;&gt;&gt; little while still.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Chris
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; On Wed, May 27, 2015 at 2:35 AM, Toby Corkindale  wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Hi,
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Searching for riak roles on Ansible Galaxy brings up this one:
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; https://galaxy.ansible.com/list#/roles/777
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; However this is listed as only supporting RHEL 6 and Ubuntu 12.04.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Ubuntu 14.04 is the current long-term-support version, and what we're
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; deploying stuff to; it'd be great if the Ansible roles available could
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; support it too.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Cheers,
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Toby
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt;&gt; Sincerely,
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Christopher Mancini
&gt;&gt;&gt; -----------------------------
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; employee = {
&gt;&gt;&gt; purpose: solve problems with code,
&gt;&gt;&gt; phone: 7164625591,
&gt;&gt;&gt; email: cmanc...@basho.com,
&gt;&gt;&gt; github: http://www.github.com/christophermancini
&gt;&gt;&gt; }
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Johan Sommerfeld
&gt; tel: +46 (0) 70 769 15 73
&gt; S2HC Sweden AB
&gt; Litsbyvägen 56
&gt; 187 46 Täby

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

