---
title: "Re: last_write_wins"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-01-30T02:38:22-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13536"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13524"
author_name: "Edgar Veiga"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-01-30T02:38:22-08:00
---


Also,

Using last\_write\_wins = true, do I need to always send the vclock while on
a PUT request? In the official documention it says that riak will look only
at the timestamp of the requests.

Best regards,


On 29 January 2014 10:29, Edgar Veiga  wrote:

&gt; Hi Russel,
&gt;
&gt; No, it doesn't depend. It's always a new value.
&gt;
&gt; Best regards
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On 29 January 2014 10:10, Russell Brown  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On 29 Jan 2014, at 09:57, Edgar Veiga  wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; tl;dr
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; If I guarantee that the same key is only written with a 5 second
&gt;&gt; interval, is last\_write\_wins=true profitable?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; It depends. Does the value you write depend in anyway on the value you
&gt;&gt; read, or is it always that you are just getting a totally new value that
&gt;&gt; replaces what is in Riak (regardless what is in Riak)?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On 27 January 2014 23:25, Edgar Veiga  wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Hi there everyone!
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; I would like to know, if my current application is a good use case to
&gt;&gt;&gt; set last\_write\_wins to true.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Basically I have a cluster of node.js workers reading and writing to
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak. Each node.js worker is responsible for a set of keys, so I can
&gt;&gt;&gt; guarantee some kind of non distributed cache...
&gt;&gt;&gt; The real deal here is that the writing operation is not run evertime an
&gt;&gt;&gt; object is changed but each 5 seconds in a "batch insertion/update" style.
&gt;&gt;&gt; This brings the guarantee that the same object cannot be write to riak at
&gt;&gt;&gt; the same time, not event at the same seconds, there's always a 5 second
&gt;&gt;&gt; window between each insertion/update.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; That said, is it profitable to me if I set last\_write\_wins to true? I've
&gt;&gt;&gt; been facing some massive writting delays under high loads and it would be
&gt;&gt;&gt; nice if I have some kind of way to tune riak.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Thanks a lot and keep up the good work!
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

