---
title: "Re: Schemas, is worth to store values in SOLR?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2016-05-11T11:42:17-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg17327"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg17324"
author_name: "Alexander Sicular"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2016-05-11T11:42:17-07:00
---


Those are exactly the two options and opinions vary generally based on use
case. Storing the data not only take up more space but also more io which
makes things slower not only on read time , but more crucially , at write
time.

Often people will take a hybrid approach and store certain elements like ,
say , for blog posts , the author , publish date and title fields. Yet they
will leave the body out of the solr index. That way you could quickly
generate lists of posts by title and only fetch the body when the post is
clicked through.

What is your use case?

Best,
Alexander

On Wednesday, May 11, 2016, Alex De la rosa  wrote:

&gt; Hi all,
&gt;
&gt; When creating a SOLR schema for Riak Search, we can chose to store or not
&gt; the data we are indexing, for example:
&gt;
&gt; 
&gt;
&gt; I know that the point to have the value stored is to be able to get it
&gt; returned automatically when doing a search query... that implies using more
&gt; disc to store data that maybe never would be searched and making the return
&gt; slower as more bytes are required to get the data.
&gt;
&gt; Would it be better to just index data but not store the values, returning
&gt; only Riak IDs (\_yz\_id) and then doing a multi-get in the client/API to
&gt; fetch the objects for the final response?
&gt;
&gt; Or would it be better to store the values in SOLR so they will be already
&gt; fetched when searching?
&gt;
&gt; What would give better performance or more sense in terms of disc space on
&gt; an application that normally you won't be using much searching (all data is
&gt; more or less discoverable without searching using GETs)
&gt;
&gt; Thanks and Best Regards,
&gt; Alex
&gt;


-- 


Alexander Sicular
Solutions Architect
Basho Technologies
9175130679
@siculars
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

