---
title: "Re: riak-erlang-client"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2016-05-25T08:24:01-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg17413"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg17412"
author_name: "Richard Jonas"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2016-05-25T08:24:01-07:00
---


Thank you for the quick answer.

On Wed, May 25, 2016 at 4:13 PM, Nick Marino  wrote:

&gt; Hi Richard,
&gt;
&gt; Yes, sharing a riak-erlang-client connection process among multiple Erlang
&gt; processes should not cause any problems. The riak\_pb\_socket processes are
&gt; implemented using a gen\_server, and they use a queuing mechanism to handle
&gt; concurrent requests. If process A has sent a request and is waiting for a
&gt; response, and process B tries to send a request using the same connection
&gt; process, its request will get queued up and will be sent once process A's
&gt; request gets a reply.
&gt;
&gt; Keep in mind though that this queuing mechanism could cause suboptimal
&gt; performance if you have many processes competing for use of a single
&gt; connection: users of the connection may end up spending a lot of time
&gt; blocked, waiting for requests from other processes to finish. Depending on
&gt; the circumstances, you may find that it's better to open multiple
&gt; connections than to share a single connection among multiple processes.
&gt;
&gt; Nick
&gt;
&gt; On Wed, May 25, 2016 at 6:28 AM, Richard Jonas &lt;
&gt; richard.jo...@erlang-solutions.com&gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Guys,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; most of the examples I can see that riak erlang client processes cannot
&gt;&gt; be shared with multiple processes. Is it safe if more processes use the
&gt;&gt; same riak connection? So in other words: is riak erlang client thread-safe?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; Richard Jonas
&gt;&gt; Erlang Solutions Hungary Kft
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Address:
&gt;&gt; Riverpark Office K.32
&gt;&gt; Közraktár street 32. 3/1.
&gt;&gt; 1093 Budapest
&gt;&gt; Hungary
&gt;&gt; Phone/fax:
&gt;&gt; +36-1-7000-654
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;


-- 
Richard Jonas
Erlang Solutions Hungary Kft

Address:
 Riverpark Office K.32
 Közraktár street 32. 3/1.
 1093 Budapest
 Hungary
Phone/fax:
 +36-1-7000-654
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

