---
title: "Re: Unit testing, Riak buckets"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-10-13T19:22:38-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12615"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12614"
author_name: "Jeremiah Peschka"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-10-13T19:22:38-07:00
---


Go on.

---
sent from a tiny portion of the hive mind...
in this case, a phone
On Oct 13, 2013 9:19 PM, "Sean Cribbs"  wrote:

&gt; Not sure it's the greatest way (sometimes slow), but our integration
&gt; testing tool riak\_test uses git to store a clean "devrel" and resets/cleans
&gt; the git repository at the beginning of each test. If you're curious, I can
&gt; point you to the relevant sections of code that do this.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Sun, Oct 13, 2013 at 8:34 PM, Jeremiah Peschka &lt;
&gt; jeremiah.pesc...@gmail.com&gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; For CorrugatedIron's integration tests, we frequently use a GUID as part
&gt;&gt; of the bucket name and then destroy the bucket after tests finish. Since
&gt;&gt; I'm frequently moving between different Riak builds, I destroy my data
&gt;&gt; directories at the filesystem level on a regular basis.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Your idea of using cron jobs to delete yesterday's buckets doesn't sound
&gt;&gt; like a bad idea.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Yes, listing buckets is bad in production. No, this isn't production.
&gt;&gt; Therefore: LIST ALL THE THINGS!
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; ---
&gt;&gt; Jeremiah Peschka - Founder, Brent Ozar Unlimited
&gt;&gt; MCITP: SQL Server 2008, MVP
&gt;&gt; Cloudera Certified Developer for Apache Hadoop
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Sun, Oct 13, 2013 at 8:27 PM, Toby Corkindale &lt;
&gt;&gt; toby.corkind...@strategicdata.com.au&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Hi,
&gt;&gt;&gt; I'd like to hear how other people are approaching the problem of
&gt;&gt;&gt; cleaning Riak buckets up at the end of unit tests for their apps.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; The problem I have is that multiple tests may be run at once (by
&gt;&gt;&gt; different developers or different Jenkins' jobs or even just a parallelised
&gt;&gt;&gt; test suite) so I can't really run a blanket delete-all at the end of the
&gt;&gt;&gt; test suite, unless I use a randomly-named bucket each time. Yet if I do
&gt;&gt;&gt; that, I'm concerned the test suite may crash out prior to the end
&gt;&gt;&gt; sometimes, and then never delete that randomly-named bucket.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; If secondary indexes aren't required, then the easy solution is to use a
&gt;&gt;&gt; randomly-named Bitcask bucket which has a backend configured for a fairly
&gt;&gt;&gt; short TTL.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Otherwise, I have wondered about creating buckets with a certain format,
&gt;&gt;&gt; perhaps "test-XXXXXX-YYYY-MM-DD", (x=random) and then a nightly cron script
&gt;&gt;&gt; can run to find all buckets timestamped from the previous day or earlier,
&gt;&gt;&gt; and remove them. I gather listing all buckets is an expensive operation
&gt;&gt;&gt; though, although it'll only be running on a testing Riak cluster.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; So I wondered how other developers are approaching this issue?
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Cheers,
&gt;&gt;&gt; Toby
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\*\*\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/\*\*mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_\*\*lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt; Software Engineer
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; http://basho.com/
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

