---
title: "Re: ring resizing feature?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-09-18T08:48:51-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12303"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12295"
author_name: "Jordan West"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-09-18T08:48:51-07:00
---


Hey PN,

I'm the engineer at Basho working on Ring Resizing, primarily. I've left
some comments inline.


On Wed, Sep 18, 2013 at 12:46 AM,  wrote:

&gt;
&gt; Dear all,
&gt; After a quick glimpse at Riak, I must say I like it: DHT with masterless
&gt; design and gossiping protocol, that is appealing. More than maintainability
&gt; or configurability, I am interested in scalability. I have looked at the
&gt; node adding process for fine scaling, but for scaling big (over the long
&gt; term) the necessity of resizing the ring (in order to double the number of
&gt; partitions) seems unavoidable to me.
&gt;

This is certainly one of the use cases the feature is meant to address.
However, we suggest that it is your "last resort" scaling feature -- if
your cluster can still handle adding nodes that's a better option. But at
some point, yes, doubling or quadrupling the ring size can be useful,
especially if you started with a small cluster. Its, not useful, however,
for e.g. doubling the number of partitions during peak hours for more
concurrency and then shrinking back down again.


&gt; - is this feature officially released as part of 1.4?
&gt;

The feature was released as experimental in Riak 1.4. The move out of
experimental is slated for the next release.


&gt; - if yes, is it a stable feature, is it ready for production? if not, is
&gt; it still under ongoing development?
&gt;
- if it was released as unstable, what is your experience with it?
&gt;


For open source, using this feature w/ the 1.4 release is not suggested for
production use. That should change with the next release. This is why there
is no documentation.

We are currently working with a few customers, who have clusters suited for
resizing, at various levels of testing/production.

It is currently under further development. Immediate work involves bug
fixes and minor improvements. Longer term improvements will focus on
reducing the overhead/cost of the operation.


&gt; - in your opinion, can the problem be simplified if we only consider
&gt; scaling out by doubling the ring size?
&gt;

The problem is pretty much the same whether you are expanding by a factor
of 2 or 4 (same for shrinking). The larger the growth/shrink factor the
slower the operation will be.

Also, independently of ring resizing, what do you consider the current
&gt; limits of ring\_creation\_size? I have seen mentioned that 2048 and higher
&gt; could importantly increase the volume of gossiping, what is your experience
&gt; with it?
&gt; I hope you will be kind enough to provide me with some enlightenments.
&gt; Kind regards.
&gt; PN
&gt;

There we some changes recently to riak\_core to improve its handling of
large rings [1]. The benchmarks there tested up to 16384, however, i
believe that was for illustration purposes. Most large clusters we see use
1024. The theoretical maximum most likely depends on many things.

Cheers,
Jordan


&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Une messagerie gratuite, garantie à vie et des services en plus, ça vous
&gt; tente ?
&gt; Je crée ma boîte mail www.laposte.net
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

