---
title: "Re: Riak for streaming video"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-06-26T13:47:28-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14388"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14387"
author_name: "Hector Castro"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-06-26T13:47:28-07:00
---


Hey Alex,

My response are inline below.

--
Hector


On Thu, Jun 26, 2014 at 4:26 PM, Alex De la rosa
 wrote:
&gt; Hi Hector,
&gt;
&gt; I see, I always thought that Riak CS was the same as Riak just that you run
&gt; it in Amazon S3... they are actually different...

Correct, but it is important to note that Riak is still at the core of Riak CS.

&gt; So... if I have a social network and one of the features is that they can
&gt; share video, I would use a normal Riak cluster for the webapp and data and a
&gt; Riak CS cluster for the video storage/streaming... am I right?

That seems like a reasonable conclusion.

Riak is fundamentally a distributed key/value store for low latency
access to smaller pieces of data. Riak CS is an S3/Swift
API-compatible object storage platform with a little higher request
latency, but also the added ability to house very large objects
(backups, raw images, video).

&gt; By the way, couldn't this "range header" be implemented in standard Riak?
&gt; might be a good thing to have so you don't need 2 clusters for this matter.

It could some day. Right now, separating the clusters is best because
tuning a single cluster for both use cases would be difficult.

&gt; Thanks,
&gt; Alex
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Thu, Jun 26, 2014 at 9:28 PM, Hector Castro  wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi Alex,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; For this type of problem, you may want to look into Riak CS. [0] It is
&gt;&gt; an object storage platform built on top of Riak.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; When you GET an object from Riak CS, you can specify a Range header to
&gt;&gt; get the object by its byte offset. [1]
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; Hector
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; [0] http://docs.basho.com/riakcs/latest/
&gt;&gt; [1]
&gt;&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riakcs/latest/references/apis/storage/s3/RiakCS-GET-Object/#Examples
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Thu, Jun 26, 2014 at 3:22 PM, Alex De la rosa
&gt;&gt;  wrote:
&gt;&gt; &gt; Hi there,
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; Imagine that I want to use Riak for a video service like Youtube and I
&gt;&gt; &gt; save
&gt;&gt; &gt; the video file in Riak... is there a way to stream the contents of 1
&gt;&gt; &gt; key? I
&gt;&gt; &gt; know we can stream keys... but what about its content?
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; It would be pretty troublesome to have to wait for the full data to be
&gt;&gt; &gt; downloaded $bucket-&gt;get('myvideo') to be able to serve it... as they can
&gt;&gt; &gt; be
&gt;&gt; &gt; pretty big files.
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; Is there any recommendation to store/get big files like videos? or it
&gt;&gt; &gt; would
&gt;&gt; &gt; be better to use some other system than Riak for the job?
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt; &gt; Alex
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;
&gt;

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

