---
title: "Re: non-indexable SOLR schema"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-04-04T08:52:26-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15980"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15979"
author_name: "Alex De la rosa"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-04-04T08:52:26-07:00
---


How to do that?

For what I have seen, to use these special data types you need to create a
bucket under a bucket\_type; and this bucket type is created following an
index so data gets indexed in Solr.

On Saturday, April 4, 2015, Shawn Debnath  wrote:

&gt; You do not have to set up Yokozuna (yz) to be able to use counters,
&gt; sets, maps in Riak. Those types can be used independently via the Riak key
&gt; value store. You only need to set up the indexes if you were to search for
&gt; data via yz or search 2.0. And in that case, you can remove the generic
&gt; mappings, keep the \_yz specific ones and then explicitly add the fields you
&gt; want to index/search on.
&gt;
&gt; On 4/4/15, 7:25 AM, "Alex De la rosa"  &gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Hi all,
&gt;
&gt; To be able to use counters/sets/maps in Riak I have to store the object
&gt; into a defined bucket\_type indexed via SOLR.
&gt;
&gt; However, this will require extra disk space as data will be indexed (if
&gt; using the default schema). Can I create a custom schema "ignoring" all
&gt; fields so nothing is indexed? I don't need to use Riak Search on these
&gt; objects, as I always know the KEY to fetch them. A schema like this would
&gt; work? ( I guess that I can not put [ indexed="false" ] in the "\_yz\*" fields
&gt; required by Riak, right? Or is it possible to not index that data either? )
&gt;
&gt; —+—+—+—+—+—+—+—+—+—+—+—+—+—+—+—+—+—+—+—+—+—+—+—+—+—
&gt; xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt;  multiValued="false" required="true"/&gt;
&gt;  multiValued="false"/&gt;
&gt;  multiValued="false"/&gt;
&gt;  multiValued="false"/&gt;
&gt;  multiValued="false"/&gt;
&gt;  multiValued="false"/&gt;
&gt;  multiValued="false"/&gt;
&gt;  multiValued="false"/&gt;
&gt;  multiValued="false"/&gt;
&gt; 
&gt;
&gt; \_yz\_id
&gt;
&gt; 
&gt;  multiValued="true" class="solr.StrField" /&gt;
&gt; 
&gt;  /&gt;
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; —+—+—+—+—+—+—+—+—+—+—+—+—+—+—+—+—+—+—+—+—+—+—+—+—+—
&gt;
&gt; Another question, can I use the [ compressed="true" ] to save disk
&gt; space? in both  and "\_yz\*" fields?
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; Alex
&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

