---
title: "Pull request for eleveldb"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2019-08-14T10:14:56-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg18629"
author_name: "Bryan Hunt"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2019-08-14T10:14:56-07:00
---


Created a PR for eleveldb develop branch : 

https://github.com/basho/eleveldb/pull/254 


Lets operate on the basis that :

The future of Riak is leveled - particularly as there's been next to no 
maintenance on this since 2016
The develop branch is for users of rebar3, that's a reasonable presumption in 
2019
People would like to be able to build on OSX, Alpine, Debian.
People are using riak\_core and it needs hashtree/metadata etc which are all 
dependent upon eleveldb (for now).
People are using Erlang 20+, and in many cases Erlang 22
People are using riak\_core in Elixir applications
Lots of people do their daily work on OSX.
This PR :

Removes the usage of rebar (the binary blob that you don't really know where it 
came from or what it does).
Provides two dockerfiles, one for Alpine, one for debian that demonstrate 
what's necessary to get eleveldb to build on those two platforms, using rebar3, 
with these changes - perhaps those docker builds could be added to travis (if 
it's still running) in a future PR.
Uses the operating system provided version of snappy instead of using an 
arbitrary, unverified (no checksum) version of the snappy library marked as 
1.0.4 - incidentally, there is an existing security advisory for snappy version 
1.1.4. https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2018-7577 
 - in any event 
the intention was to switch to lz4 as the default - I think we can agree this 
doesn't represent very good practice now (made sense at the time).
Downside :
The tools for inspecting SST files don't build - can't get them to work in any 
of the envs (OSX,Alpine,Debian) - perhaps someone with better c/c++ experience 
can figure that out - in any event nobody uses them apart from @matthewvon 
 - maybe he can offer a suggestion/tweak to get 
them working again. I think that's acceptable for now.




-- 


Code Sync & Erlang Solutions Conferences

Code BEAM Lite BD 
 - Budapest: 
20 September 2019

Code BEAM Lite NYC 
 - NYC: 01 
October 2019

Code BEAM Lite 
 - Berlin: 
11 October 2019

RabbitMQ Summit 
 - London: 4 
November 2019

Code Mesh LDN 
 - London: 7-8 
November 2019

Code BEAM Lite India 
 - 
Bangalore: 14 November 2019

Code BEAM Lite AMS 
 - Amsterdam: 
28 November 2019

Lambda Days 
 - Kraków: 
13-14 February 2020

Code BEAM SF - San Francisco: 5-6 March 2020





\*Erlang Solutions cares about your data and privacy; please find all 
details about the basis for communicating with you and the way we process 
your data in our \*\*Privacy Policy\* 
\*.You can update your 
email preferences or opt-out from receiving Marketing emails here 
.\*
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

