---
title: "Re: Error while installing riak on ubuntu 12.04"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-07-08T07:01:42-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16280"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16279"
author_name: "Fred Dushin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-07-08T07:01:42-07:00
---


Generally this means you built a version of Erlang that did not end up building 
the crypto application. This usually happens if the configure script does not 
find the OpenSSL header files and libraries. You probably need to install one 
of the openssl-dev packages on whatever flavor of Linux you are using, and then 
rebuild Erlang/OTP. Pay special attention to the output of the configure 
script, and verify crypto has been built via the Erlang shell, e.g.,

1&gt; m(crypto).
Module crypto compiled: Date: April 14 2015, Time: 03.02
Compiler options: [{d,'CRYPTO\_VSN',"3.1"},
 {outdir,"/xxxxxx/lib/crypto/src/../ebin"},
 warnings\_as\_errors,warn\_obsolete\_guard,debug\_info]
Object file: /xxxxxxx/lib/crypto-3.1/ebin/crypto.beam
Exports: 
aes\_cbc\_128\_decrypt/3 hmac\_update/2
aes\_cbc\_128\_encrypt/3 info/0
aes\_cbc\_256\_decrypt/3 info\_lib/0
...

-Fred

&gt; On Jul 8, 2015, at 7:23 AM, Gopi Krishna  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; Hi,
&gt; 
&gt; I am trying to install riak1.4.7 on my ubuntu 12.04 machine.
&gt; 
&gt; I have installed otp\_src\_R15BO1 version.
&gt; 
&gt; erl shell is coming fine but when i try to install riak.
&gt; 
&gt; The below command is thrwoing me the error:
&gt; 
&gt; make rel
&gt; 
&gt; fatal: No names found, cannot describe anything.
&gt; ./rebar get-deps
&gt; Uncaught error in rebar\_core: {'EXIT',
&gt; {undef,
&gt; [{crypto,start,[],[]},
&gt; {rebar,run\_aux,2,[]},
&gt; {rebar,main,1,[]},
&gt; {escript,run,2,
&gt; [{file,"escript.erl"},{line,727}]},
&gt; {escript,start,1,
&gt; [{file,"escript.erl"},{line,277}]},
&gt; {init,start\_it,1,[]},
&gt; {init,start\_em,1,[]}]}}
&gt; make: \*\*\* [deps] Error 1
&gt; 
&gt; I am also getting error in the erlang shell to make sure it is getting the 
&gt; crypto file or not 
&gt; 
&gt; Erlang R15B01 (erts-5.9.1) [source] [64-bit] [smp:4:4] [async-threads:0] 
&gt; [hipe] [kernel-poll:false]
&gt; 
&gt; Eshell V5.9.1 (abort with ^G)
&gt; 1&gt; 
&gt; 1&gt; l(crypto).
&gt; {error,on\_load\_failure}
&gt; 
&gt; =ERROR REPORT==== 8-Jul-2015::16:52:21 ===
&gt; Unable to load crypto library. Failed with error:
&gt; "load\_failed, Failed to load NIF library 
&gt; /usr/local/lib/erlang/lib/crypto-2.1/priv/lib/crypto: 'libcrypto.so.10: 
&gt; cannot open shared object file: No such file or directory'"
&gt; OpenSSL might not be installed on this system.
&gt; 
&gt; =ERROR REPORT==== 8-Jul-2015::16:52:21 ===
&gt; The on\_load function for module crypto returned {error,
&gt; {load\_failed,
&gt; "Failed to load NIF library 
&gt; /usr/local/lib/erlang/lib/crypto-2.1/priv/lib/crypto: 'libcrypto.so.10: 
&gt; cannot open shared object file: No such file or directory'"}}
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; Someone please suggest me to how to fix it.
&gt; 
&gt; -- 
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks & Regards,
&gt; J.Gopi Krishna
&gt; +91-8341452934,
&gt; www.lintelindia.com 
&gt; Lintel Technologies Pvt. LTD,Hyderabad.
&gt; 
&gt; This message contains confidential information and is intended for recipient. 
&gt; If you are not the intended recipient you are notified that disclosing, 
&gt; copying, distributing or taking any action in reliance on the contents of 
&gt; this information is strictly prohibited. E-mail transmission cannot be 
&gt; guaranteed to be secure or error-free as information could be intercepted, 
&gt; corrupted, lost, destroyed, arrive late or incomplete, or contain viruses. 
&gt; The sender therefore does not accept liability for any errors or omissions in 
&gt; the contents of this message, which arise as a result of e-mail transmission. 
&gt; If verification is required please request a hard-copy version.
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

