---
title: "Re: Riak on SAN"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-10-02T06:14:33-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12452"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12449"
author_name: "Alexander Sicular"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-10-02T06:14:33-07:00
---


Seconded. 

Leave the SAN. Take the SSDs. 


@siculars
http://siculars.posthaven.com

Sent from my iRotaryPhone

&gt; On Oct 2, 2013, at 2:18, Jeremiah Peschka  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; Could you do it? Sure.
&gt; 
&gt; Should you do it? No.
&gt; 
&gt; An advantage of Riak is that you can avoid the cost of SAN storage by getting 
&gt; duplication at the machine level rather than rely on your storage vendor to 
&gt; provide it.
&gt; 
&gt; Running Riak on a SAN also exposes you to the SAN becoming your bottleneck; 
&gt; you only have so many fiber/iSCSI ports and a fixed number of disks. The risk 
&gt; of storage contention is high, too, so you can run into latency issues that 
&gt; are difficult to diagnose without looking into both Riak as well as the 
&gt; storage system.
&gt; 
&gt; Keeping cost in mind, too, SAN storage is about 10x the cost of consumer 
&gt; grade SSDs. Not to mention feature licensing and support... The cost 
&gt; comparison isn't favorable.
&gt; 
&gt; Please note: Even though your vendor calls it a SAN, that doesn't mean it's a 
&gt; SAN.
&gt;&gt; On Oct 1, 2013 11:08 PM, "Guy Morton"  wrote:
&gt;&gt; Does this make sense?
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; Guy Morton
&gt;&gt; Web Development Manager
&gt;&gt; Brüel & Kjær EMS
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; This e-mail is confidential and may be read, copied and used only by the 
&gt;&gt; intended recipient. If you have received it in error, please contact the 
&gt;&gt; sender immediately by return e-mail. Please then delete the e-mail and do 
&gt;&gt; not disclose its contents to any other person.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

