---
title: "Re: last_write_wins"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-01-30T13:50:15-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13544"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13541"
author_name: "Jason Campbell"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-01-30T13:50:15-08:00
---


I'm not sure Riak is the best fit for this. Riak is great for applications 
where it is the source of data, and has very strong consistency when used in 
this way. You are using it as a cache, where Riak will be significantly slower 
than other cache solutions. Especially since you say that each worker will 
have a set of documents it is responsible for. Something like a local memcache 
or redis would likely suit this use case just as well, but do it much faster 
with less overhead.

Riak will guarantee 3 writes to disk (by default), where something like 
memcache or redis will stay in memory, and if local, won't have network latency 
either. In the worst case where a node goes offline, the real data can be 
pulled from the backend again, so it isn't a big deal. It will also simplify 
your application, because node.js can always request from cache and not worry 
about the speed, instead of maintaining it's own cache layer.

I'm as happy as the next person on this list to see Riak being used for all 
sorts of uses, but I believe in the right tool for the right job. Unless there 
is something I don't understand, Riak is probably the wrong tool. It will 
work, but there is other software that will work much better.

I hope this helps,
Jason Campbell

----- Original Message -----
From: "Edgar Veiga" 
To: "Russell Brown" 
Cc: "riak-users" 
Sent: Friday, 31 January, 2014 3:20:42 AM
Subject: Re: last\_write\_wins



I'll try to explain this the best I can, although it's a simples architecture 
I'm not describing it in my native language :) 


I have a set of node.js workers (64 for now) that serve as a cache/middleware 
layer for a dozen of php applications. Each worker deals with a set of 
documents (it's not a distributed cache system). Each worker updates the 
documents in memory, and tags them as dirty (just like OS file cache), and from 
time to time (for now, it's a 5 seconds window interval), a persister module 
will deal with the persistence of those dirty documents to riak. 
If the document isn't in memory, it will be fetched from riak. 


If you want document X, you need to ask to the corresponding worker dealing 
with it. Two different workers, don't deal with the same document. 
That way we can guarantee that there will be no concurrent writes to riak. 


Best Regards, 







On 30 January 2014 10:46, Russell Brown &lt; russell.br...@me.com &gt; wrote: 







On 30 Jan 2014, at 10:37, Edgar Veiga &lt; edgarmve...@gmail.com &gt; wrote: 



Also, 


Using last\_write\_wins = true, do I need to always send the vclock while on a 
PUT request? In the official documention it says that riak will look only at 
the timestamp of the requests. 


Ok, from what you’ve said it sounds like you are always wanting to replace what 
is at a key with the new information you are putting. If that is the case, then 
you have the perfect use case for LWW=true. And indeed, you do not need to pass 
a vclock with your put request. And it sounds like there is no need for you to 
fetch-before-put since that is only to get context /resolve siblings. Curious 
about your use case if you can share more. 


Cheers 


Russell 










Best regards, 



On 29 January 2014 10:29, Edgar Veiga &lt; edgarmve...@gmail.com &gt; wrote: 



Hi Russel, 


No, it doesn't depend. It's always a new value. 


Best regards 





On 29 January 2014 10:10, Russell Brown &lt; russell.br...@me.com &gt; wrote: 







On 29 Jan 2014, at 09:57, Edgar Veiga &lt; edgarmve...@gmail.com &gt; wrote: 



tl;dr 


If I guarantee that the same key is only written with a 5 second interval, is 
last\_write\_wins=true profitable? 

It depends. Does the value you write depend in anyway on the value you read, or 
is it always that you are just getting a totally new value that replaces what 
is in Riak (regardless what is in Riak)? 








On 27 January 2014 23:25, Edgar Veiga &lt; edgarmve...@gmail.com &gt; wrote: 



Hi there everyone! 


I would like to know, if my current application is a good use case to set 
last\_write\_wins to true. 


Basically I have a cluster of node.js workers reading and writing to riak. Each 
node.js worker is responsible for a set of keys, so I can guarantee some kind 
of non distributed cache... 
The real deal here is that the writing operation is not run evertime an object 
is changed but each 5 seconds in a "batch insertion/update" style. This brings 
the guarantee that the same object cannot be write to riak at the same time, 
not event at the same seconds, there's always a 5 second window between each 
insertion/update. 


That said, is it profitable to me if I set last\_write\_wins to true? I've been 
facing some massive writting delays under high loads and it would be nice if I 
have some kind of way to tune riak. 


Thanks a lot and keep up the good work! 


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ 
riak-users mailing list 
riak-users@lists.basho.com 
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com 






\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

