---
title: "Re: RAM and CPU requirements"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-04-19T18:40:11-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16037"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15971"
author_name: "Kota Uenishi"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-04-19T18:40:11-07:00
---


Hi,

Generally speaking, 48/64GB RAM with 20TB storage is enough strong for
typical usage of Riak CS, like yours. I would like to mention that too
large disk size per node with narrow bandwidth may lead to less
availability - time to recover degraded replicas in case of node/disk
failure may take longer (because larger disk means longer time to
recover). That should not be longer than MTBF. To ensure the
availability, please make sure you have 5 nodes or more.


On Sat, Apr 4, 2015 at 3:53 AM, Shankar Dhanasekaran
 wrote:
&gt; Hi all,
&gt; what is the RAM and CPU requirements for RIAK CS server with 20 TB storage
&gt; and about a max of 100 concurrent requests (mix of put and get) with a max
&gt; file size of request being less than 50mb. I am just looking for a rough
&gt; figure so that I don't have to buy a really powerful server where it's not
&gt; needed.
&gt;
&gt; In this talk https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nMyU6-pU6aw, Andy Gross says
&gt; "you don't want to run these on big enterprise servers but on basically crap
&gt; and when it dies ... install new servers"
&gt;
&gt; My servers come with 48/64 GB RAM with i7 quad core processors. My need is
&gt; basically more data storage than handling more requests concurrently. So
&gt; what is the ideal 'crap' config for my need?
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; Shankar
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;



-- 
Kota UENISHI / @kuenishi
Basho Japan KK

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

