---
title: "Re: Riak or Riak CS for a Video Streaming CDN"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-06-12T07:44:17-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11253"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg11250"
author_name: "Reid Draper"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-06-12T07:44:17-07:00
---


Andre,

For large files like that, you'll find that Riak CS is a much better fit. Riak 
is not currently designed to handle files above ~ 10MB. Riak CS should support 
the Accept-Ranges header just like S3. If you find a case where that's not 
true, please let us know. It's a bug.

A couple more thoughts inline:


On Jun 11, 2013, at 4:55 AM, Andre Lohmann  wrote:

&gt; Hi, I'm in the need of a comodity hardware driven CDN for Video Streaming.
&gt; 
&gt; The Files that are uploaded can be up to serveral Gig in size (each). I need 
&gt; this system to be automatically replicated and horizontal skalable, to have a 
&gt; round-robin on all Servers (for a simple loadbalancing algorithm).
&gt; 
&gt; As far as I tested, riak does match the replicating and skalability needs.
&gt; 
&gt; I allready did some testinstallations on some virtualservers (riak v 1.3.1, 
&gt; riak cs I had problems with following the installation instructions on Ubuntu 
&gt; 12.04, it didn't worked, but I will try some more). I noticed, that the 
&gt; "accept-ranges: bytes" HTTP Header is not set. Also, compared to an apache 
&gt; box, the range requests (initiated by VLC) didn't seem to work on riak (when 
&gt; seeking to the mid of the video, all previous Data was downloaded by the 
&gt; client, jumping backward always crashed).
&gt; 
&gt; So now I have a few questions about my case and which seems to be the best 
&gt; System (pure riak or riak cs)? Also some questions about how it internally 
&gt; works?
&gt; 
&gt; For Example, I have 5 Boxes with replication to 3 Copies (which means each 
&gt; file is stored at least on 4 Boxes). When uploading a file to Box 1, this 
&gt; will be copied to Boxes 2-4. When fetching this file from Box 5, this box 
&gt; itself needs to fetch the the file internally from box 1-4. Does it select 
&gt; the Box by load, randomly, or does it fetch parts by all boxes? Will the file 
&gt; this way also get cached/replicated to Box 5 too?

To be clear, a replication value of 3 means there are 3 replicas. Not 3 
\_additional\_ replicas.

&gt; 
&gt; Am I able to set a nginx Proxy in front of each riak box, to masquerade the 
&gt; filename and still be able to handover the range requests to the riak box?

I don't know offhand if there are any gotchas with nginx and Accept-Ranges, but 
don't foresee any issues here.

&gt; 
&gt; while riak is totally save against failing boxes what about riak cs and the 
&gt; stanchion instance?

Riak CS is stateless. If a Riak CS box has failed/is-failing/slow, you can 
contact any other one in its place. Stanchion should be run on a singleton 
node, and replaced if it fails. You can also use 'traditional' HA techniques to 
make stanchion handle failover. Note, stanchion is only used for a small 
percentage of requests, like bucket creation/deletion. Normal object CRUD 
requests do \_not\_ require stanchion. So, if it fails, only a small amount of 
requests will be affected until it is back running again.

Reid


&gt; 
&gt; kind regards
&gt; 
&gt; andre lohmann
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

