---
title: "Re: Pending handoff when node offline"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2016-01-05T08:14:51-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16918"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16917"
author_name: "Magnus Kessler"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2016-01-05T08:14:51-08:00
---


On 5 January 2016 at 10:07, Daniel Iwan  wrote:

&gt; Hi all
&gt;
&gt; Am I right thinking that when node goes offline \*riak-admin transfers\* will
&gt; always show transfers to be done? E.g.
&gt;
&gt; riak-admin transfers
&gt; Attempting to restart script through sudo -H -u riak
&gt; [sudo] password for myuser:
&gt; Nodes ['riak@10.173.240.12'] are currently down.
&gt; 'riak@10.173.240.9' waiting to handoff 18 partitions
&gt; 'riak@10.173.240.11' waiting to handoff 13 partitions
&gt; 'riak@10.173.240.10' waiting to handoff 13 partitions
&gt;
&gt; Active Transfers:
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Node 'riak@10.173.240.12' could not be contacted
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Even when I mark node as down with \*riak-admin down\* transfers are still
&gt; waiting.
&gt; Is that normal?
&gt;

&gt; The reason I ask is because our services before they start are checking if
&gt; all transfers are complete (normal process during riak startup). This is
&gt; because in the past we've had issues with using 2i queries when Riak.
&gt;
&gt; Unfortunately this means that after e.g. reboot our services won't start
&gt; until timeout expires or missing node comes back and handoff finishes.
&gt;
&gt; Maybe there is a better way to check if Riak cluster is ready for 2i
&gt; queries?
&gt; We are still on Riak 1.3.1
&gt;
&gt; Regards
&gt; Daniel
&gt;


Hi Daniel,

this behaviour is completely normal and expected. As part of the high
availability capabilities of Riak, when a target VNode is not available to
write data to other Nodes will spin up fallback VNodes that temporarily
store incoming data. These will show up in the "riak-admin transfers"
output as partitions waiting to be handed off. The presence of partition
handoffs does not automatically mean that a Node is not capable of handling
queries and is therefore not a good indicator for your use case.

You may want to use "riak-admin wait-for-service riak\_kv " to
detect that a restarted node is capable of handling requests again. See
http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/ops/running/tools/riak-admin/#wait-for-service
for more details.

Regards,

Magnus

-- 
Magnus Kessler
Client Services Engineer
Basho Technologies Limited

Registered Office - 8 Lincoln’s Inn Fields London WC2A 3BP Reg 07970431
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

