---
title: "Re: Maps with multiple buckets"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-12-17T17:48:27-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13278"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13276"
author_name: "Bryce Verdier"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-12-17T17:48:27-08:00
---



Thank you for the quick response Jeremiah.

I didn't know that inputs could accept a list of buckets. I do believe 
that will solve my problem.


I'm currently using MR to grab a list all keys/counters and use the 
reduce phase to sort the keys by highest count. Because I'm using 
counters the backend MR quires are in erlang. The query would be ad hoc, 
I guess, because the client would be retrieving the data at frequent but 
not known or consist times.


Thanks again for the answer!
Bryce


On 12/17/2013 05:09 PM, Jeremiah Peschka wrote:


The allowable inputs to an MR map phase include a list of bucket key 
pairs. If you know your keys in advance the problem is solved.


Can you describe a bit more about how you're using MR? Is this an ad 
hoc query? A predictable report? Time based?


---
sent from a tiny portion of the hive mind...
in this case, a phone

On Dec 17, 2013 4:51 PM, "Bryce Verdier" &gt; wrote:


 Hi All,

 I have a question concerning map-reduce. I have two buckets with
 counters enabled that have similar keys to track two different
 metrics. At the moment in order to combine these two datasets
 together I have to make 2 different map-reduce queries and combine
 the data within the client. I'm wondering if/how it might be
 possible to combine both of these queries into one. I'm thinking
 that Links are a possibility, but I'm not sure if it would or how
 viable a solution it would be.

 Any and all advice is welcomed.

 Thanks in advance,
 Bryce

 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
 riak-users mailing list
 riak-users@lists.basho.com 
 http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com



\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

