---
title: "Re: Split index with Riak 2.0 git (jan 15th) on a single dev node	cluster"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-01-23T14:42:33-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13471"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13460"
author_name: "Rob Speer"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-01-23T14:42:33-08:00
---


I'm still interested in the question as it applies to Yokozuna. Stable
full-text search in Riak will be very important to my company, so I'd want
to know what the equivalent behaviors are for Yokozuna queries. Do you have
to wait an unspecified amount of time between writing a document and
querying it via Yokozuna? Is there a way to know when it is ready?


On Thu, Jan 23, 2014 at 10:53 AM, Luke Bakken  wrote:

&gt; Hi Rob,
&gt;
&gt; I believe Ryan meant to wait a second to do a Yokozuna search, not a
&gt; general Riak K/V operation.
&gt;
&gt; There is more information about "read your own writes" here:
&gt; http://basho.com/tag/configurable-behaviors/
&gt; --
&gt; Luke Bakken
&gt; CSE
&gt; lbak...@basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Wed, Jan 22, 2014 at 11:36 AM, Rob Speer  wrote:
&gt; &gt;&gt; 5. Did you wait at least 1 second before running the queries?
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; I'm not the original poster but I'm now wondering what this question
&gt; means.
&gt; &gt; Under what circumstances do you have to wait 1 second before query
&gt; results
&gt; &gt; are available?
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; We want to always be able to run tests on our database rapidly, which
&gt; &gt; includes loading data and then immediately querying to make sure the
&gt; correct
&gt; &gt; data is there. I know we've had some tests where we were not able to read
&gt; &gt; our own writes, but I thought those were fixed by making sure we used
&gt; vector
&gt; &gt; clocks correctly. Is there a situation where you have to wait for an
&gt; &gt; unspecified amount of time before you can read your writes?
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

