---
title: "Re: Riak on Solaris/OmniOS/illumos"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2016-07-12T08:17:41-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg17524"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg17468"
author_name: "Luke Bakken"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2016-07-12T08:17:41-07:00
---


Hi Henrik,

Sorry for the delay in responding to you via this channel. Solaris /
Illumos support will be dropped in a future Riak release, as will
FreeBSD. However, this does not preclude the community continuing
support for these platforms. All the necessary code to build
platform-specific Riak packages is in this repository:

https://github.com/basho/node\_package

Maintaining support for a platform basically entails that the build
for that platform continues to work on that platform's supported
versions.

If you'd like to contribute, please give building the packages for
your platform a try. If you have difficulty or find issues, file them
on GitHub, or better yet, send in a PR.

Thanks

--
Luke Bakken
Engineer
lbak...@basho.com

On Mon, Jun 13, 2016 at 5:30 AM, Henrik Johansson  wrote:
&gt; Hi,
&gt;
&gt; I've recently been told that Riak will no longer be supported on 
&gt; Solaris/illumos based distributions. At the same time ZFS was recommended 
&gt; which I find a bit strange since ZFS comes from Solaris/illumos and is still 
&gt; the most tested of the platform. There are also Riak probes for DTrace.
&gt;
&gt; Can someone confirm this and/or give me some background to this?
&gt;
&gt; Regards
&gt; Henrik
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

