---
title: "Re: RIAK 1.4.6 - Mass key deletion"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-07-20T06:25:30-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14513"
author_name: "Simon Effenberg"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-07-20T06:25:30-07:00
---


Hi Matthew,

so is there a awy to improve the compaction rate in Riak &lt; 2.0 or do I
have to upgrade to 2.0 to get this?

Cheers
Simon

On Sun, Apr 06, 2014 at 06:30:30PM -0400, Matthew Von-Maszewski wrote:
&gt; Edgar,
&gt; This is indirectly related to you key deletion discussion. I made changes
&gt; recently to the aggressive delete code. The second section of the
&gt; following (updated) web page discusses the adjustments:
&gt; https://github.com/basho/leveldb/wiki/Mv-aggressive-delete
&gt; Matthew
&gt; On Apr 6, 2014, at 4:29 PM, Edgar Veiga  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; Matthew, thanks again for the response!
&gt; That said, I'll wait again for the 2.0 (and maybe buy some bigger disks
&gt; :)
&gt; Best regards
&gt; 
&gt; On 6 April 2014 15:02, Matthew Von-Maszewski  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; Edgar,
&gt; In Riak 1.4, there is no advantage to using empty values versus
&gt; deleting.
&gt; leveldb is a "write once" data store. New data for a given key never
&gt; physically overwrites old data for the same key. New data "hides" the
&gt; old data by being in a lower level, and therefore picked first.
&gt; leveldb's compaction operation will remove older key/value pairs only
&gt; when the newer key/value is pair is part of a compaction involving
&gt; both new and old. The new and the old key/value pairs must have
&gt; migrated to adjacent levels through normal compaction operations
&gt; before leveldb will see them in the same compaction. The migration
&gt; could take days, weeks, or even months depending upon the size of your
&gt; entire dataset and the rate of incoming write operations.
&gt; leveldb's "delete" object is exactly the same as your empty JSON
&gt; object. The delete object simply has one more flag set that allows it
&gt; to also be removed if and only if there is no chance for an identical
&gt; key to exist on a higher level.
&gt; I apologize that I cannot give you a more useful answer. 2.0 is on
&gt; the horizon.
&gt; Matthew
&gt; On Apr 6, 2014, at 7:04 AM, Edgar Veiga  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; Hi again!
&gt; Sorry to reopen this discussion, but I have another question
&gt; regarding the former post.
&gt; What if, instead of doing a mass deletion (We've already seen that
&gt; it will be non profitable, regarding disk space) I update all the
&gt; values with an empty JSON object "{}" ? Do you see any problem with
&gt; this? I no longer need those millions of values that are living in
&gt; the cluster... 
&gt; When the version 2.0 of riak runs stable I'll do the update and only
&gt; then delete those keys!
&gt; Best regards
&gt; 
&gt; On 18 February 2014 16:32, Edgar Veiga 
&gt; wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; Ok, thanks a lot Matthew.
&gt; 
&gt; On 18 February 2014 16:18, Matthew Von-Maszewski
&gt;  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; Riak 2.0 is coming. Hold your mass delete until then. The
&gt; "bug" is within Google's original leveldb architecture. Riak
&gt; 2.0 sneaks around to get the disk space freed.
&gt; Matthew
&gt; On Feb 18, 2014, at 11:10 AM, Edgar Veiga
&gt;  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; The only/main purpose is to free disk space..
&gt; I was a little bit concerned regarding this operation, but now
&gt; with your feedback I'm tending to don't do nothing, I can't
&gt; risk the growing of space... 
&gt; Regarding the overhead I think that with a tight throttling
&gt; system I could control and avoid overloading the cluster.
&gt; Mixed feelings :S
&gt; 
&gt; On 18 February 2014 15:45, Matthew Von-Maszewski
&gt;  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; Edgar,
&gt; The first "concern" I have is that leveldb's delete does not
&gt; free disk space. Others have executed mass delete
&gt; operations only to discover they are now using more disk
&gt; space instead of less. Here is a discussion of the problem:
&gt; https://github.com/basho/leveldb/wiki/mv-aggressive-delete
&gt; The link also describes Riak's database operation overhead.
&gt; This is a second "concern". You will need to carefully
&gt; throttle your delete rate or the overhead will likely impact
&gt; your production throughput.
&gt; We have new code to help quicken the actual purge of deleted
&gt; data in Riak 2.0. But that release is not quite ready for
&gt; production usage.
&gt; What do you hope to achieve by the mass delete?
&gt; Matthew
&gt; On Feb 18, 2014, at 10:29 AM, Edgar Veiga
&gt;  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; Sorry, forgot that info!
&gt; It's leveldb.
&gt; Best regards
&gt; 
&gt; On 18 February 2014 15:27, Matthew Von-Maszewski
&gt;  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; Which Riak backend are you using: bitcask, leveldb,
&gt; multi?
&gt; 
&gt; Matthew
&gt; 
&gt; On Feb 18, 2014, at 10:17 AM, Edgar Veiga
&gt;  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; &gt; Hi all!
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; I have a fairly trivial question regarding mass
&gt; deletion on a riak cluster, but firstly let me give you
&gt; just some context. My cluster is running with riak 1.4.6
&gt; on 6 machines with a ring of 256 nodes and 1Tb ssd
&gt; disks.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; I need to execute a massive object deletion on a
&gt; bucket, I'm talking of ~1 billion keys (The object
&gt; average size is ~1Kb). I will not retrive the keys from
&gt; riak because a I have a file with all of them. I'll just
&gt; start a script that reads them from the file and
&gt; triggers an HTTP DELETE for each one.
&gt; &gt; The cluster will continue running on production with a
&gt; quite high load serving all other applications, while
&gt; running this deletion.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; My question is simple, do I need to have any kind of
&gt; extra concerns regarding this action? Do you advise me
&gt; on taking special attention to any kind of metrics
&gt; regarding riak or event the servers where it's running?
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Best regards!
&gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;
&gt; 
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com


-- 
Simon Effenberg | Site Op | mobile.international GmbH

Phone: + 49. 30. 8109. 7173
M-Phone: + 49. 151. 5266. 1558
Mail: seffenb...@team.mobile.de
Web: www.mobile.de

Marktplatz 1 | 14532 Europarc Dreilinden | Germany

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
Geschäftsführer: Malte Krüger
HRB Nr.: 18517 P, Amtsgericht Potsdam
Sitz der Gesellschaft: Kleinmachnow
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

