---
title: "Re: Unit testing, Riak buckets"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-10-13T18:36:41-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12613"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12612"
author_name: "Jeremiah Peschka"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-10-13T18:36:41-07:00
---


For CorrugatedIron's integration tests, we frequently use a GUID as part of
the bucket name and then destroy the bucket after tests finish. Since I'm
frequently moving between different Riak builds, I destroy my data
directories at the filesystem level on a regular basis.

Your idea of using cron jobs to delete yesterday's buckets doesn't sound
like a bad idea.

Yes, listing buckets is bad in production. No, this isn't production.
Therefore: LIST ALL THE THINGS!

---
Jeremiah Peschka - Founder, Brent Ozar Unlimited
MCITP: SQL Server 2008, MVP
Cloudera Certified Developer for Apache Hadoop


On Sun, Oct 13, 2013 at 8:27 PM, Toby Corkindale &lt;
toby.corkind...@strategicdata.com.au&gt; wrote:

&gt; Hi,
&gt; I'd like to hear how other people are approaching the problem of cleaning
&gt; Riak buckets up at the end of unit tests for their apps.
&gt;
&gt; The problem I have is that multiple tests may be run at once (by different
&gt; developers or different Jenkins' jobs or even just a parallelised test
&gt; suite) so I can't really run a blanket delete-all at the end of the test
&gt; suite, unless I use a randomly-named bucket each time. Yet if I do that,
&gt; I'm concerned the test suite may crash out prior to the end sometimes, and
&gt; then never delete that randomly-named bucket.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; If secondary indexes aren't required, then the easy solution is to use a
&gt; randomly-named Bitcask bucket which has a backend configured for a fairly
&gt; short TTL.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Otherwise, I have wondered about creating buckets with a certain format,
&gt; perhaps "test-XXXXXX-YYYY-MM-DD", (x=random) and then a nightly cron script
&gt; can run to find all buckets timestamped from the previous day or earlier,
&gt; and remove them. I gather listing all buckets is an expensive operation
&gt; though, although it'll only be running on a testing Riak cluster.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; So I wondered how other developers are approaching this issue?
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Cheers,
&gt; Toby
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\*\*\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/\*\*mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_\*\*lists.basho.com
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

