---
title: "Re: Lets come together - how riak(_core) should be developed in the	future?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2017-08-17T08:52:52-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg18414"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg18412"
author_name: "Russell Brown"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2017-08-17T08:52:52-07:00
---


Great idea Heinz, I think speaking together is the right start.

I’m free next week, but a key member of our team is not. I know we’re never 
going to get everyone to agree on a time, but if we could do it early the 
following week it would suit more. Otherwise, I will attend and pass info 
along, so don’t worry. I think bet365 should be involved too. They probably 
have the largest team anywhere working on Riak.

Maybe a doodle http://doodle.com/en\_GB/ would be a good thing?

Russell

On 17 Aug 2017, at 15:47, Heinz N. Gies  wrote:

&gt; Heya everyone, 
&gt; I figured I’ll pick up the initiative here and see if we all can come 
&gt; together before fragmentation hits. Annette mentioned this today and I think 
&gt; she’s right.
&gt; 
&gt; There are many people that want to see risk(\_core) continue to evolve and 
&gt; improve, out of the top of my head there are ES - who picked up support for 
&gt; riak, NHS/UK - which is using it and seem to keep doing so, there is Gordon, 
&gt; Annette, Chris, Tristan, Mariano and me who all have an interest to keep 
&gt; things going. I’m pretty sure I forgot a good few people (sorry! It doesn’t 
&gt; mean I love you any less, I just have a brain like a sieve).
&gt; 
&gt; Amongst all of us I’m sure we’ve quite some forks. Tristan, Chris, Mariano 
&gt; and me started https://github.com/Kyorai to consolidate the git repos that 
&gt; correspond to the current hex packages as an example, NHS runs a fork of core 
&gt; at https://github.com/ramensen/riak\_core and I guess ES will have one too by 
&gt; now. (Again apologies if I forgot someone).
&gt; 
&gt; I am quite sure that all of us have the same goal and probably are interested 
&gt; in the same things (keeping riak(\_core) strong). So what I’d like to suggest 
&gt; is we find a time to sit together and chat about how we pool resources 
&gt; instead of trying to cross merge in N different places. Perhaps late next 
&gt; week EU afternoon US morning? Please raise a hand if interested, discuss and 
&gt; share times that would work for you :)
&gt; 
&gt; Cheers,
&gt; Heinz
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

