---
title: "Re: Sudden frequent node crashes"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-10-08T12:41:55-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16642"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16641"
author_name: "Russell Brown"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-10-08T12:41:55-07:00
---


Hi Allen,
Riak only supports erlang r16 at this time. Probably best to use the erlang 
that riak ships with, or build our basho OTP fork, instructions here: 
http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/ops/building/installing/erlang/#Installing-on-FreeBSD-Solaris

We’re working on erlang 17 and beyond support.

Also, can you confirm what install you did of riak (source? checkout of a tag 
on github?) Those line numbers in your crash don’t match up for me

Cheers

Russell

&gt; On 8 Oct 2015, at 20:35, Allen Landsidel  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; Oops sorry, forgot about that.
&gt; 
&gt; I'm running Erlang 17 from ports; erlang-runtime17-17.5.6.3
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On 10/8/2015 15:28, Russell Brown wrote:
&gt;&gt; Hi Allen,
&gt;&gt; What version of erlang are you running, please?
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Cheers
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Russell
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; On 8 Oct 2015, at 19:58, Allen Landsidel  wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Background:
&gt;&gt;&gt; Riak 2.1.1
&gt;&gt;&gt; FreeBSD 9.1.
&gt;&gt;&gt; Servers are all virtualized on VMWare ESX 5.5. Each node is given ~300G of 
&gt;&gt;&gt; storage, 4G of RAM, and 2 core SMP.
&gt;&gt;&gt; Storage is via FC SAN.
&gt;&gt;&gt; Access to the cluster from clients is strictly over the HTTP interface and 
&gt;&gt;&gt; is funneled through haproxy.
&gt;&gt;&gt; The cluster was five nodes using leveldb with a ring size of 16.
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; The cluster is setup this way so that we could start small and add nodes as 
&gt;&gt;&gt; needed, with a small memory footprint, rather than preallocating a ton of 
&gt;&gt;&gt; memory and disk space that we may never use. The cluster has been running 
&gt;&gt;&gt; fine for the past month.
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Today the cluster has begun experiencing strange repeated failures. No 
&gt;&gt;&gt; changes in any of the clients have been made, so the problem seems as 
&gt;&gt;&gt; though it must be in the data coming in.
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; I started a fresh two-node cluster and shortly after data begins flowing 
&gt;&gt;&gt; into the cluster, nodes begin crashing.
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; The first report in the crash log is below. I'm far from an expert at 
&gt;&gt;&gt; understanding these errors, but "invalid\_unicode" seems telling.
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; If more from the crash log is needed, I can provide it. Once this first 
&gt;&gt;&gt; error comes in, the node goes offline and errors just continue to roll in 
&gt;&gt;&gt; to the log file, in what looks like an attempt to automatically restart the 
&gt;&gt;&gt; node.
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; --------------------------------------------
&gt;&gt;&gt; \*\* Generic server &lt;0.2136.0&gt; terminating
&gt;&gt;&gt; \*\* Last message in was {vnodeid,10000}
&gt;&gt;&gt; \*\* When Server state == {state,"/var/db/riak/kv\_vnode/0",0,&lt;0.2135.0&gt;,2}
&gt;&gt;&gt; \*\* Reason for termination ==
&gt;&gt;&gt; \*\* 
&gt;&gt;&gt; {{badmatch,{error,{4,file\_io\_server,invalid\_unicode}}},[{riak\_kv\_vnode\_status\_mgr,handle\_call,3,[{file,"src/riak\_kv\_vnode\_status\_mgr.erl"},{line,178}]},{gen\_server,try\_handle\_call,4,[{file,"gen\_server.erl"},{line,607}]},{gen\_server,handle\_msg,5,[{file,"gen\_server.erl"},{line,639}]},{proc\_lib,init\_p\_do\_apply,3,[{file,"proc\_lib.erl"},{line,237}]}]}
&gt;&gt;&gt; 2015-10-08 18:36:18 =CRASH REPORT====
&gt;&gt;&gt; crasher:
&gt;&gt;&gt; initial call: riak\_kv\_vnode\_status\_mgr:init/1
&gt;&gt;&gt; pid: &lt;0.2136.0&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; registered\_name: []
&gt;&gt;&gt; exception exit: 
&gt;&gt;&gt; {{{badmatch,{error,{4,file\_io\_server,invalid\_unicode}}},[{riak\_kv\_vnode\_status\_mgr,handle\_call,3,[{file,"src/riak\_kv\_vnode\_status\_mgr.erl"},{line,178}]},{gen\_server,try\_handle\_call,4,[{file,"gen\_server.erl"},{line,607}]},{gen\_server,handle\_msg,5,[{file,"gen\_server.erl"},{line,639}]},{proc\_lib,init\_p\_do\_apply,3,[{file,"proc\_lib.erl"},{line,237}]}]},[{gen\_server,terminate,7,[{file,"gen\_server.erl"},{line,804}]},{proc\_lib,init\_p\_do\_apply,3,[{file,"proc\_lib.erl"},{line,237}]}]}
&gt;&gt;&gt; ancestors: [&lt;0.2135.0&gt;,riak\_core\_vnode\_sup,riak\_core\_sup,&lt;0.169.0&gt;]
&gt;&gt;&gt; messages: []
&gt;&gt;&gt; links: [&lt;0.2135.0&gt;]
&gt;&gt;&gt; dictionary: []
&gt;&gt;&gt; trap\_exit: false
&gt;&gt;&gt; status: running
&gt;&gt;&gt; heap\_size: 610
&gt;&gt;&gt; stack\_size: 27
&gt;&gt;&gt; reductions: 569
&gt;&gt;&gt; neighbours:
&gt;&gt;&gt; --------------------------------------------
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; 


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

