---
title: "Re: S3ResponseError: 403 Forbidden，backend configuration and riak cs version."
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2016-11-29T08:44:18-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg17790"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg17787"
author_name: "Shaun McVey"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2016-11-29T08:44:18-08:00
---


Hi Neo,

1) When building from source, the version numbers never show. They only
appear in the packaged versions. That's why you're not seeing them.

2) After creating the admin user - did you change anonymous\_user\_creation
back to 'off'?

3) I'm not entirely clear on what you did there - did you change the
data\_root for both bitcask and leveldb backends to use the same directory?

Kind Regards,
Shaun

On Tue, Nov 29, 2016 at 9:22 AM, Neo  wrote:

&gt; Hi
&gt; I'm new to riak and when i trying object storage with riak cs, i got some
&gt; problems.
&gt; i setup riak kv ,stanchion and riak cs in the same node,and configured
&gt; them as files here:
&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riak/kv/2.2.0/configuring/
&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riak/cs/2.1.1/cookbooks/configuration/
&gt; and i started all of them successfully.but i still met some problems:
&gt; 1,
&gt; as all these three are cloned from github and compiled, and versions are:
&gt; riak kv ——2.0.7
&gt; riak cs ——2.1.0
&gt; but after compiling ,i met cs\_version = 10300 in riak-cs.conf (by default),
&gt; i was confused ,so i try
&gt; riak@riak3:~/riak-cs-2.1.0/rel/riak-cs/bin$ ./riak-cs version
&gt; but got nothing, the same situation with riak kv and stanchion,got nothing
&gt; too, i was confused ,can someone tell me does this version configuration
&gt; important? do i need to configured this? and how to do it ?
&gt;
&gt; 2,
&gt; i successfully create an account for the admin user, but after i
&gt; successfully performanced several tests, and tried to create a nother
&gt; account with this :
&gt; curl -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
&gt; -XPOST http://127.0.0.1:8080/riak-cs/user \
&gt; --data '{"email":"us...@example.com", "name":"user1"}'
&gt; but failed and got this :
&gt; curl: (52) Empty reply from server
&gt; so why is this and can i and how can i create user accounts after
&gt; performance test ?
&gt;
&gt; 3,
&gt; the last and the most important one. about riak cs's storage backend
&gt; configuration.
&gt; my riak kv, stanchion and riak cs path are :
&gt; /home/riak/riak-2.0.7/rel/riak/bin/riak
&gt; /home/riak/stanchion/rel/stanchion/bin/stanchion
&gt; /home/riak/riak-cs-2.1.0/rel/riak-cs/bin/riak-cs
&gt; and with advance.conf like this:
&gt; [
&gt; {riak\_cs,
&gt; [
&gt; ]},
&gt; {eleveldb, [
&gt; {total\_leveldb\_mem\_percent, 30}
&gt; ]},
&gt; {riak\_kv, [
&gt; {add\_paths,
&gt; ["/home/riak/riak-cs-2.1.0/rel/riak-cs/lib/riak\_cs-2.1.0/ebin"]},
&gt; {storage\_backend, riak\_cs\_kv\_multi\_backend},
&gt; {multi\_backend\_prefix\_list, [{&lt;&lt;"0b:"&gt;&gt;, be\_blocks}]},
&gt; {multi\_backend\_default, be\_default},
&gt; {multi\_backend, [
&gt; {be\_default, riak\_kv\_eleveldb\_backend, [
&gt; {total\_leveldb\_mem\_percent, 30},
&gt; {data\_root,
&gt; "/home/riak/riak-2.0.7/rel/riak/data/leveldb"}
&gt; ]},
&gt; {be\_blocks, riak\_kv\_bitcask\_backend, [
&gt; {data\_root,
&gt; "/home/riak/riak-2.0.7/rel/riak/data/bitcask"}
&gt; ]}
&gt; ]}
&gt; ]},
&gt; {ssl, [
&gt; {certfile, "./etc/cert.pem"},
&gt; {keyfile, "./etc/key.pem"},
&gt; {cacertfile, "./etc/cacert.pem"}
&gt; ]}
&gt; %% Other configs
&gt; my tests works well.
&gt; but when i try to change the data\_root in the advance.conf to another
&gt; directory like this:
&gt; ...
&gt; {data\_root, "/mnt/sd8"}
&gt; ...
&gt; {data\_root, "/mnt/sd8"}
&gt; ...
&gt; then i started to performance testing, and failed,below is the message:
&gt; File "test8-2.py", line 16, in 
&gt; bucket = conn.create\_bucket('test4')
&gt; File "/usr/local/lib/python2.7/dist-packages/boto/s3/connection.py",
&gt; line
&gt; 625, in create\_bucket
&gt; response.status, response.reason, body)
&gt; boto.exception.S3ResponseError: S3ResponseError: 403 Forbidden
&gt; xml version="1.0"
 encoding="UTF-8"?&gt;`AccessDenied`Access
&gt; Denied/test4/ RequestId&gt;
&gt; can anyone tell me how to fix this error? and how to specify my riak cs's
&gt; data\_root to a special data directory?
&gt; and my scenario like this:
&gt; #/usr/bin/env python
&gt; #coding=utf-8
&gt; import time
&gt; import os
&gt; import boto
&gt; import boto.s3.connection
&gt; access\_key = 'admin.key'
&gt; secret\_key = 'admin.secret'
&gt; conn = boto.connect\_s3(
&gt; aws\_access\_key\_id = access\_key,
&gt; aws\_secret\_access\_key = secret\_key,
&gt; host = '127.0.0.1', port = 8080,
&gt; ##is\_secure=True,
&gt; calling\_format = boto.s3.connection.OrdinaryCallingFormat(),
&gt; )
&gt; bucket = conn.create\_bucket('test4')
&gt; ...
&gt;
&gt; these problems troubled me about two weeks, so i'm very look forward tha
&gt; someone can help me...plz...
&gt;
&gt; Best Regards!
&gt; Neo
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; View this message in context: http://riak-users.197444.n3.
&gt; nabble.com/S3ResponseError-403-Forbidden-backend-
&gt; configuration-and-riak-cs-version-tp4034722.html
&gt; Sent from the Riak Users mailing list archive at Nabble.com.
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

