---
title: "Re: Moving the anti-entropy directory (riak 1.4)"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-09-15T07:00:10-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16529"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16508"
author_name: "Magnus Kessler"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-09-15T07:00:10-07:00
---


On 11 September 2015 at 11:45, Sujay Mansingh  wrote:

&gt; On our riak cluster machines, we have a separate disk which stores all the
&gt; bitcask data (in /data)
&gt;
&gt; This is so that we can have a (relatively) small disk for the OS, and have
&gt; a big disk for /data.
&gt;
&gt; $ df -h / /data
&gt; Filesystem Size Used Avail Use% Mounted on
&gt; /dev/root 20G 11G 7.9G 57% /
&gt; /dev/md3 3.6T 277G 3.1T 9% /data
&gt;
&gt; However, especially more so lately, we see that the /var/lib/riak
&gt; directory often becomes very large.
&gt;
&gt; $ pwd
&gt; /var/lib/riak
&gt; $ du -hcs \*
&gt; 9.3G anti\_entropy
&gt; 1.1M kv\_vnode
&gt; 104K ring
&gt; 9.3G total
&gt;
&gt; So we see that the anti\_entropy directory takes up 9.3GB (almost half of /).
&gt; (Sometimes it balloons to 18GB, almost taking up the disk. We then restart
&gt; riak to get the disk usage down.)
&gt;
&gt; I want to move that directory off /.
&gt;
&gt; Here are the steps I want to perform on each node.
&gt;
&gt; 1. Stop riak
&gt; 2. Move /data to /riak/data (I will have to change the name of the
&gt; mount point)
&gt; 3. Move /var/lib/riak/anti\_entropy to /riak/anti\_entropy
&gt; 4. Change the following items in app.config
&gt; - Change {anti\_entropy\_data\_dir, "/var/lib/riak/anti\_entropy"}, to 
&gt; {anti\_entropy\_data\_dir,
&gt; "/riak/anti\_entropy"},
&gt; - Change {data\_root, "/data"} to {data\_root, "/riak/data"}
&gt; 5. Start riak
&gt;
&gt; I just wanted to confirm that if I move the files and change the config,
&gt; riak will simply start up and continue as before.
&gt;
&gt;
Hi Sujay,

The steps you outlined are going to work fine. Please make sure that the
newly created '/riak' directory has the correct file permissions for the
'riak' user.

Regards,

Magnus


&gt; Thanks!
&gt;
&gt; Sujay
&gt; ​
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;


-- 
Magnus Kessler
Client Services Engineer @ Basho

Registered Office - 8 Lincoln’s Inn Fields London WC2A 3BP Reg 07970431
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

