---
title: "RE: Slow write performance for Riak CS"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-07-03T17:22:44-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14457"
author_name: "Matthew MacClary"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-07-03T17:22:44-07:00
---


Hi all, a Riak CS user named Toby started this discussion about write
performance. I am seeing the exact same behavior in terms of idle CPUs,
network, and disks, but low throughput. Toby do you happen to have any
follow up about settings to improve the raw Riak throughput and/or Riak CS
throughput?

http://lists.basho.com/pipermail/riak-users\_lists.basho.com/2013-May/012177.html

Cheers,

-Matt

On 29/05/13 06:12, Reid Draper wrote:
&gt;\* Hey Toby,
\*&gt;&gt;\* Another option is to explore some of the Riak CS PUT
configuration parameters, like the internal write concurrency and the
buffer size. These can either be changed by editing the app.config, or
changing them at run-time in an Erlang shell (via riak-cs attach). The
two parameters are `put\_concurrency` and `put\_buffer\_factor`.
\*&gt;&gt;\* They both default to 1. The `put\_concurrency` controls the number
of threads inside of Riak CS that are used to write blocks to Riak.
The `put\_buffer\_factor` controls the number of blocks that will be
buffered in-memory in Riak CS before it starts to slow down reading
from the HTTP client. I suggesting trying to raise these values to get
higher single-client throughput. If you wish to edit the app.config,
add lines like in the `riak\_cs` section:
\*&gt;&gt;\* {put\_concurrency, 8},
\*&gt;\* {put\_buffer\_factor, 16},
\*

Ah, thanks -- that's interesting. Bumping up those up a bit did improve
things a bit -- I went for a conservative concurrency of 4,
buffer\_factor of 8, and that took speeds on 500M files from 8-9mb/s to
12-13mb/sec.

Might play with other values when I next get time, but for now that's a
good cheap win.

&gt;\* In increasing these values, you might also find it useful to run a load 
&gt;balancer between the Riak CS and Riak nodes, instead of having Riak CS just 
&gt;communicate with the local Riak node. We intend to have this behavior built 
&gt;into Riak CS in the future, but for now a load balancer will suffice.
\*
Ah, ta. Can do.

&gt;\* Furthermore, please make sure you've looked through the Linux Tuning page 
&gt;for Riak [1]. And as for +zdbbl, you can try even higher, like 128MB: +zdbbl 
&gt;131072.
\*
Thanks.
I'd been through there already, and applied things like filesystem and
scheduler options.
I haven't touched the networking sysctls since they came with a warning
that they should only be messed with if networking \*was\* the bottleneck.

Given what I've mentioned so far, do you think it's likely?
I guess it can't hurt to adjust them and see..

&gt;\* [1] 
&gt;http://docs.basho.com/riak/1.3.1/cookbooks/Linux-Performance-Tuning/#Linux-Tuning
&gt; 
&gt;
\*

Thanks for your advice,
Toby


&gt;&gt;&gt;\* Reid
\*&gt;&gt;\* On May 27, 2013, at 11:50 PM, Toby Corkindale &gt;
wrote:
\*&gt;&gt;&gt;\* On 28/05/13 13:11, Jared Morrow wrote:
\*&gt;&gt;&gt;\* Toby,
\*&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;\* Can you trying putting data with a second client simultaneously? When
\*&gt;&gt;&gt;\* people have slow benchmarking, lots of times just using multiple
\*&gt;&gt;&gt;\* worker/clients helps. Also, what client library are you using?
\*&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;\* Running up three S3 clients (on separate machines)
simultaneously saw them return 8, 8, 6 MB/sec. Interesting to note
that the performance hasn't dropped threefold, but still, it'd be
really nice if an individual transfer would run faster, given the
performance of the underlying hardware.
\*&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;\* The nodes hardly get utilised during a write operation. I've
uploading a total of 1500M from the three nodes, and yet CPUs are 90%
idle, and there's no real disk activity going on, apart from a couple
of times when several hundred get flushed out over the course of a
second.
\*&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;\* I feel like something isn't quite right. What is the system
\*waiting\* for? There's plenty of CPU and IO to go around.
\*&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;\* In the case of the current benchmarking, I'm using either
s3cmd or curl.
\*&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;\* Also I meant to mention in my first reply, but Boundary
\*&gt;&gt;&gt;\* http://boundary.com/  worked wonders for
us being able to see how much
\*&gt;&gt;&gt;\* data was really moving around. They have a free trial as far as I know.
\*&gt;&gt;&gt;\* It might be worth it to see if there are any obvious bottlenecks.
\*&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;\* Thanks, I'll have a look and see if the effort of setting it
all up looks worthwhile.
\*&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;\* Cheers,
\*&gt;&gt;\* Toby
\*&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;\* On Mon, May 27, 2013 at 8:46 PM, Toby Corkindale
\*&gt;&gt;&gt;\* 
\*&gt;&gt;&gt;\* &gt;&gt;
wrote:
\*&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;\* On 28/05/13 01:41, Jared Morrow wrote:
\*&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;\* Toby,
\*&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;\* If you write with multiple clients does it still
stick to 9mb/s or
\*&gt;&gt;&gt;\* does it increase? What is the network link between your
client and
\*&gt;&gt;&gt;\* the Riak CS cluster? On our internal CS cluster we were seeing
\*&gt;&gt;&gt;\* around 2gb/s read+write at the network level so I know CS can take
\*&gt;&gt;&gt;\* the speeds, so my gut thinks you single client might have a slow
\*&gt;&gt;&gt;\* link. That is just a guess.
\*&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;\* The network links are all Ethernet, and appear to be
functioning OK.
\*&gt;&gt;&gt;\* iperf reports:
\*&gt;&gt;&gt;\* bandwidth from client to loadbalancer: 2.20 gbit/sec
\*&gt;&gt;&gt;\* bandwidth from loadbalancer to a riak node: 941 mbit/sec
\*&gt;&gt;&gt;\* bandwidth from one riak node to another node: 942 mbit/s
\*&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;\* I've tested going direct from a client to a riak node rather than
\*&gt;&gt;&gt;\* via the loadbalancer, but it doesn't seem to make any difference.
\*&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;\* Having tested a bit further now, I'd guess that the problem lies
\*&gt;&gt;&gt;\* with Riak rather than Riak CS.
\*&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;\* I've noticed that if I try to push files directly into
Riak, they go
\*&gt;&gt;&gt;\* fairly slowly too - around 10-20mbyte/sec.
\*&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;\* I've tried 3, 10 and 50 MB files, against bitcask, leveldb and even
\*&gt;&gt;&gt;\* memory backends, and in all cases I get fairly consistent transfer
\*&gt;&gt;&gt;\* rates in that range. (just using curl for testing here)
\*&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;\* I've tried reducing n\_val to 1, there was a small but not
\*&gt;&gt;&gt;\* significant improvement.
\*&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;\* I'm a bit stumped.. However I do note that the log files seem to
\*&gt;&gt;&gt;\* have a lot of "monitor busy\_dist\_port" messages in them.. I'm
\*&gt;&gt;&gt;\* wondering if that might be related somehow?
\*&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;\* \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
\*&gt;&gt;\* riak-users mailing list
\*&gt;&gt;\* riak-users at lists.basho.com

\*&gt;&gt;\* http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
\*
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

