---
title: "Re: Load balancer"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-02-02T09:25:30-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13567"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13566"
author_name: "Konstantin Kalin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-02-02T09:25:30-08:00
---


Sorry jumping into the discussion. What is a best way to monitor Riak node 
health? Most loadbalancer uses HTTP request to check if a node is alive. 

Currently we use Riak Java client to load balance requests to Riak. The issue 
is if a node gets removed or added all Java servers need to update 
configuration to reflect the changes. It’s kinda annoying for operation team. 
So we started thinking about putting LB between Riak cluster and Java clients. 

Thank you,
Konstantin. 

On Feb 2, 2014, at 8:25 AM, Gideon de Kok  wrote:

&gt; Mark,
&gt; 
&gt; Your throughput of your total cluster will still be dependent on the 
&gt; throughput on that specific node:
&gt; It can coordinate requests, but stays responsible for the actual response to 
&gt; the client.
&gt; 
&gt; Load balancers not only help to increase performance by fanning out the 
&gt; requests to multiple servers,
&gt; it will also increase the availability of your cluster in terms of client to 
&gt; server connections. 
&gt; 
&gt; Cheers,
&gt; On 2 Feb 2014 at 17:20:28, markrthomas (mark.tho...@equifax.com) wrote:
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Hello 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Any node in a Riak cluster can coordinate requests for any other Riak node 
&gt;&gt; that is responsible for the data you're reading/writing. 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; What is the advantage of fronting a Riak cluster with a load-balancer? 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Thanks 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Mark 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; -- 
&gt;&gt; View this message in context: 
&gt;&gt; http://riak-users.197444.n3.nabble.com/Load-balancer-tp4030414.html 
&gt;&gt; Sent from the Riak Users mailing list archive at Nabble.com. 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ 
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list 
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com 
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

