---
title: "Re: Riak Search 2.0 Questions"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-07-24T09:59:20-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14547"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14546"
author_name: "Ryan Zezeski"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-07-24T09:59:20-07:00
---



On Jul 24, 2014, at 12:29 PM, Andrew Zeneski  wrote:

&gt; Been checking out 2.0rc1 and am really excited about the new features (as I 
&gt; think most of us are). I had a couple of questions that I couldn't find 
&gt; answers to scanning the docs. Totally possible I missed it and if so, please 
&gt; feel free to direct me to the proper place.
&gt; 
&gt; 1. Is there a way to remove a search index and schema? 

No, currently you can only store/update a schema.

&gt; 
&gt; 2. Do indexes just "reference" schemas?

An index has an associated schema. When the index is created locally on a node 
it retrieves that schema from an internal store built into Riak and writes it 
to the directory specific to that index. The index uses the schema stored in 
its local directory. Updates to the schema are not automatically propagated to 
the local file.

&gt; More specifically, if I update a schema will those changes "propagate" to all 
&gt; indexes using that schema? 

No, you will need to either need to delete the index and recreate or attach to 
the Riak console and run the following command:

rp(yz\_index:reload(&lt;&lt;"index\_name"&gt;&gt;)).

This command will fetch the latest version of the associated schema for the 
index “index\_name”, overwrite the index’s local schema, and then reload that 
index across the entire cluster.

Why is this all so awkward? Some of the gory details can be found in these two 
issues if you really want to know:

https://github.com/basho/yokozuna/issues/130
https://github.com/basho/yokozuna/issues/403

&gt; 
&gt; The reason I ask is I've been experimenting with simple searching and found 
&gt; in the logs an error indexing a document due to unknown fields. I realized I 
&gt; missed the catch all dynamic field in my schema and updated it. After 
&gt; updating I ran the test again (after deleting any existing data) but the 
&gt; error persists. Leading me to believe that the schema isn't updating. But 
&gt; when I view the schema $RIAK\_HOST/search/schema/testschema I see the updates.

Yes, the schema itself has been updated but, as explained above, it is once 
removed from the index and not automatically reloaded.

-Z

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

