---
title: "Re: Setting up my Riak architecture"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-07-24T07:51:00-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11719"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg11716"
author_name: "Hector Castro"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-07-24T07:51:00-07:00
---


Hi Maksymilian,

My response is inline below.

--
Hector


On Wed, Jul 24, 2013 at 8:51 AM, prog112  wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Hello.
&gt; I'm currently developing my database relationships with my other server
&gt; applications and I'm having a hard time figuring out how to approach it.
&gt; Here's what I'm wondering about:
&gt;
&gt; 1) How does accessing Riak really work? Currently I'm having one machine
&gt; with all my tools (Riak, master server, dynamic game server instnaces) on
&gt; it. My database is set up on 127.0.0.1 in /etc/riak/app.config does it mean
&gt; it can only be accessed from localhost?

We recommend that production Riak deployments run with at least 5
nodes. There are several reasons why we recommend 5, and they're
outlined pretty well in this post. [0]

If you want Riak to only be accessible via the local host, then
binding to 127.0.0.1 works. If you want to communicate with Riak from
other nodes, bind to an address that is accessible to the other nodes,
or 0.0.0.0.

&gt; 2) Say later on I'm going to have more seperate machines to run my game
&gt; server nodes. My game servers do require to get some info about players from
&gt; the database. Should I connect to database directly from those game servers
&gt; instances or should I do it via master server? Won't master server get too
&gt; much traffic then though? How can I connect to database from my game servers
&gt; anyway if they're at separate machines?

Any node in a Riak cluster can coordinate requests for any other Riak
node that is responsible for the data you're reading/writing. That
said, it's common for users to deploy Riak clusters behind a load
balancer that evenly distributes requests to each node in the cluster.
[1]

Hope that helps.

&gt; What do you guys think? All feedback will be very appreciated.
&gt;

[0] http://basho.com/why-your-riak-cluster-should-have-at-least-five-nodes/
[1] http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/ops/advanced/configs/load-balancing-proxy/

&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; View this message in context: 
&gt; http://riak-users.197444.n3.nabble.com/Setting-up-my-Riak-architecture-tp4028520.html
&gt; Sent from the Riak Users mailing list archive at Nabble.com.
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

