---
title: "Re: Riak 2.0.0 RC1"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-07-21T15:02:14-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14524"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14522"
author_name: "Tom Santero"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-07-21T15:02:14-07:00
---


+1, it's very exciting to see this RC knowing how much work went into it's
making. Congrats all around.


On Mon, Jul 21, 2014 at 5:56 PM, Mark S Phillips 
wrote:

&gt; Truly awesome work. Congratulations to you and the team, Jared.
&gt;
&gt; Mark
&gt;
&gt; On Mon, Jul 21, 2014 at 5:34 PM, Jared Morrow  wrote:
&gt; &gt; Riak-Users,
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Everyone at Basho is extremely happy to announce the public availability
&gt; of
&gt; &gt; Riak 2.0.0 RC. As a release candidate, we do not recommend using it in
&gt; &gt; production, but it should be considered feature and API complete for Riak
&gt; &gt; 2.0 final. We reserve the right to make changes for any data-loss or
&gt; severe
&gt; &gt; performance issues found post-RC, but these will not affect the API.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; This is our most ambitious release, with major new features throughout
&gt; the
&gt; &gt; product. With that in mind, please take plenty of time to read through
&gt; the
&gt; &gt; Release Notes. There are some important considerations regarding
&gt; upgrades,
&gt; &gt; known issues, and packaging. The Release Notes are still a
&gt; work-in-progress
&gt; &gt; and will be continually updated as we march towards 2.0 final. We have
&gt; made
&gt; &gt; a lot of progress on our docs site for 2.0, but still have work to do
&gt; before
&gt; &gt; final release. We appreciate your patience.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Release Notes: https://github.com/basho/riak/blob/2.0/RELEASE-NOTES.md
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Downloads: http://docs.basho.com/riak/2.0.0/downloads/
&gt; &gt; Note: There will be minor tweaks to the download site to show the labels
&gt; for
&gt; &gt; SuSE Enterprise Linux and Ubuntu 14.04 packages
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; APT/YUM Repos (see release-notes re: this change):
&gt; &gt; https://packagecloud.io/basho/riak/install Note: If you are downloading
&gt; the
&gt; &gt; files directly, use our docs site. For apt/yum repo install, use
&gt; &gt; packagecloud.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Thanks to everyone in our community,
&gt; &gt; -Team Basho
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Mark
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

