---
title: "Re: Update to 1.4.8"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-03-07T01:58:32-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13767"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13739"
author_name: "Timo Gatsonides"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-03-07T01:58:32-08:00
---



Hi Edgar,

please note that I’ve run into the same problem. And I did what you’re 
describing: restarting the nodes one by one and removing the AAE folders. 
However I am strongly suspecting that this didn’t solve it completely for me 
since a few nodes kept thrashing the disk continuously. My gut feeling says 
this is because the AAE starts immediately when the node is started and some of 
the other nodes then still have the incorrect/faulty AAE data, immediately 
triggering repairs or something.

So I stopped AAE on all nodes (with riak attach), removed the AAE folders on 
all the nodes. And then restarted them one-by-one, so they all started with a 
clean AAE state. Then about a day later the cluster was finally in a normal 
state.

Regards,
Timo

p.s. of course I can be wrong and maybe the I/O was caused by something else.

&gt; Message: 5
&gt; Date: Thu, 6 Mar 2014 10:15:55 +0000
&gt; From: Edgar Veiga 
&gt; To: Scott Lystig Fritchie 
&gt; Cc: "riak-users@lists.basho.com" 
&gt; Subject: Re: Update to 1.4.8
&gt; Message-ID:
&gt; 
&gt; Content-Type: text/plain; charset="iso-8859-1"
&gt; 
&gt; Hi Scott,
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks for replying.
&gt; 
&gt; After this problem, I've been faced with a huge amount of disk consumption
&gt; regarding the aae folder (It's now in the order of the 100G).
&gt; 
&gt; Indeed, I've been talking with your Brian Sparrow and he advised me to
&gt; remove the anti antropy folder contents. Before that I'm going to attach to
&gt; the riak process and stop the aae. After that I'll restart all the nodes
&gt; one by one, removing the anti antropy contents in between.
&gt; 
&gt; I should have done this by the time I've updated to 1.4.8, but
&gt; unfortunately the message only appeared on the release notes after I've
&gt; started the upgrade process…
&gt; 




smime.p7s
Description: S/MIME cryptographic signature
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

