---
title: "Re: [Basho Riak] Fail To Update Document Repeatly With Cluster of 5	Nodes"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2017-02-07T00:18:39-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg17926"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg17924"
author_name: "my hue"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2017-02-07T00:18:39-08:00
---


Dear John and Russell Brown,

\* How fast is your turnaround time between an update and a fetch?

The turnaround time between an update and a fetch about 1 second.
During my team and I debug, we adjusted haproxy with the scenario as
follow:

Scenario 1 : round robin via 5 nodes of cluster

We meet issue at scenario 1 and we are afraid of that timeout can be occurs
between nodes,
make us still get stale data. Then we performed scenario 2

Scenario 2: Disable round robin and only route request to node 1. Cluster
still is 5 nodes.
With this case we ensure that request update and fetch always come to and
from node 1.
And the issue still occurs.

At the fail time, I hoped that can get any error log from riak nodes to
give me any information.
But riak log show to me nothing and everything is ok.

\* What operation are you performing?

I used :

riakc\_pb\_socket:update\_type(Pid, {Bucket-Type, Bucket}, Key,
riakc\_map:to\_op(Map), []).
riakc\_pb\_socket:fetch\_type(Pid, {BucketType, Bucket}, Key, []).

\* It looks like the map is a single level map of last-write-wins registers. Is
there a chance that the time on the node handling the update is behind the
value in the lww-register?

=&gt; I am not sure about logic show conflict of internal riak node. And the
issue never happens if I used single node.
My bucket properties as follow :

{"props":{"name":"menu","active":true,"allow\_mult":true,"bac
kend":"bitcask\_mult","basic\_quorum":false,"big\_vclock":50,
"chash\_keyfun":{"mod":"riak\_core\_util","fun":"chash\_std\_
keyfun"},"claimant":"riak-node1@64.137.190.244","datatype":"
map","dvv\_enabled":true,"dw":"quorum","last\_write\_wins":
false,"linkfun":{"mod":"riak\_kv\_wm\_link\_walker","fun":"mapre
duce\_linkfun"},"n\_val":3,"name":"menu","notfound\_ok":tru
e,"old\_vclock":86400,"postcommit":[],"pr":0,"precommit":[],"
pw":0,"r":"quorum","rw":"quorum","search\_index":"menu\_
idx","small\_vclock":50,"w":"quorum","young\_vclock":20}}

Note :
+ "datatype":"map"
+ "last\_write\_wins": false
+ "dvv\_enabled": true
+ "allow\_mult": true


\* Have you tried using the `modify\_type` operation in riakc\_pb\_socket which
does the fetch/update operation in sequence for you?

=&gt; I dot not use yet, but my action is sequence with fetch and then
update. Might be I will try modify\_type to see.

\* Anything in the error logs on any of the nodes?

=&gt; From the node log, no errror report at fail time.

\* Is the opaque context identical from the fetch and then later after the
update?

=&gt; There is the context got from fetch and that context used with update.
And during our debug time with string of sequence : fetch , update, fetch ,
update , .... the context I saw always the same at
fetch data.

Best regards,
Hue Tran



On Tue, Feb 7, 2017 at 2:11 AM, John Daily  wrote:

&gt; Originally I suspected the context which allows Riak to resolve conflicts
&gt; was not present in your data, but I see it in your map structure. Thanks
&gt; for supplying such a detailed description.
&gt;
&gt; How fast is your turnaround time between an update and a fetch? Even if
&gt; the cluster is healthy it’s not impossible to see a timeout between nodes,
&gt; which could result in a stale retrieval. Have you verified whether the
&gt; stale data persists?
&gt;
&gt; A single node cluster gives an advantage that you’ll never see in a real
&gt; cluster: a perfectly synchronized clock. It also reduces (but does not
&gt; completely eliminate) the possibility of an internal timeout between
&gt; processes.
&gt;
&gt; -John
&gt;
&gt; On Feb 6, 2017, at 1:02 PM, my hue  wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Dear Riak Team,
&gt;
&gt; I and my team used riak as database for my production with an cluster
&gt; including 5 nodes.
&gt; While production run, we meet an critical bug that is sometimes fail to
&gt; update document.
&gt; I and my colleagues performed debug and detected an issue with the
&gt; scenario as follow:
&gt;
&gt; + fetch document
&gt; + change value of document
&gt; + update document
&gt;
&gt; Repeat about 10 times and will meet fail. With the document is updated
&gt; continually,
&gt; sometimes will face update fail.
&gt;
&gt; The first time, 5 nodes of cluster we used riak version 2.1.1.
&gt; After meet above bug, we upgraded to use riak version 2.2.0 and this issue
&gt; still occurs.
&gt;
&gt; Via many time test, debug using Tcpdump at riak node :
&gt;
&gt; \*tcpdump -A -ttt -i {interface} src host {host} and dst port {port} \*
&gt;
&gt; And together with the command:
&gt;
&gt; \*riak-admin status | grep "node\_puts\_map\| node\_puts\_map\_total\|
&gt; node\_puts\_total\| vnode\_map\_update\_total\| vnode\_puts\_total\"\*
&gt;
&gt; we got that the riak server already get the update request.
&gt; However, do not know why riak backend fail to update document.
&gt; At the fail time, from riak server log everything is ok.
&gt;
&gt; Then we removed cluster and use a single riak server, and see that above
&gt; bug never happen.
&gt;
&gt; For that reason, think that is only happen with cluster work. We took
&gt; research on basho riak document and our riak configure
&gt; seems that like suggestion from document. We totally blocked on this
&gt; issue and hope that can get support from you
&gt; so that can obtain a stable work from riak database for our production.
&gt; Thank you so much. Hope that can get your reply soon.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \* The following is our riak node information :
&gt;
&gt; Riak version: 2.2.0
&gt; OS : CentOS Linux release 7.2.1511
&gt; Cpu : 4 core
&gt; Memory : 4G
&gt; Riak configure : the attached file "riak.conf"
&gt;
&gt; \*Note :\*
&gt;
&gt; - We mostly using default configure of riak configure except that we used
&gt; storage backend is multi
&gt;
&gt; storage\_backend = multi
&gt; multi\_backend.bitcask\_mult.storage\_backend = bitcask
&gt; multi\_backend.bitcask\_mult.bitcask.data\_root = /var/lib/riak/bitcask\_mult
&gt; multi\_backend.default = bitcask\_mult
&gt;
&gt; ------------------------------------------------------------
&gt; -----------------------------------------------------------------
&gt;
&gt; - Bucket type created with the following command:
&gt;
&gt; riak-admin bucket-type create dev\_restor '{"props":{"backend":"bitcask\_
&gt; mult","datatype":"map"}}'
&gt; riak-admin bucket-type activate dev\_restor
&gt;
&gt; ------------------------------------------------------------
&gt; -----------------------------------------------------------------
&gt;
&gt; - Bucket Type Status :
&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; riak-admin bucket-type status dev\_restor
&gt;
&gt; dev\_restor is active
&gt; young\_vclock: 20
&gt; w: quorum
&gt; small\_vclock: 50
&gt; rw: quorum
&gt; r: quorum
&gt; pw: 0
&gt; precommit: []
&gt; pr: 0
&gt; postcommit: []
&gt; old\_vclock: 86400
&gt; notfound\_ok: true
&gt; n\_val: 3
&gt; linkfun: {modfun,riak\_kv\_wm\_link\_walker,mapreduce\_linkfun}
&gt; last\_write\_wins: false
&gt; dw: quorum
&gt; dvv\_enabled: true
&gt; chash\_keyfun: {riak\_core\_util,chash\_std\_keyfun}
&gt; big\_vclock: 50
&gt; basic\_quorum: false
&gt; backend: &lt;&lt;"bitcask\_mult"&gt;&gt;
&gt; allow\_mult: true
&gt; datatype: map
&gt; active: true
&gt; claimant: 'riak-node1@64.137.190.244'
&gt;
&gt; ------------------------------------------------------------
&gt; -----------------------------------------------------------------
&gt;
&gt; - Bucket Property :
&gt;
&gt; {"props":{"name":"menu","active":true,"allow\_mult":true,"bac
&gt; kend":"bitcask\_mult","basic\_quorum":false,"big\_vclock":50,
&gt; "chash\_keyfun":{"mod":"riak\_core\_util","fun":"chash\_std\_
&gt; keyfun"},"claimant":"riak-node1@64.137.190.244","datatype":"
&gt; map","dvv\_enabled":true,"dw":"quorum","last\_write\_wins":
&gt; false,"linkfun":{"mod":"riak\_kv\_wm\_link\_walker","fun":"mapre
&gt; duce\_linkfun"},"n\_val":3,"name":"menu","notfound\_ok":tru
&gt; e,"old\_vclock":86400,"postcommit":[],"pr":0,"precommit":[],"
&gt; pw":0,"r":"quorum","rw":"quorum","search\_index":"menu\_
&gt; idx","small\_vclock":50,"w":"quorum","young\_vclock":20}}
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; ------------------------------------------------------------
&gt; -----------------------------------------------------------------
&gt;
&gt; - Member status :
&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; riak-admin member-status
&gt;
&gt; ================================= Membership
&gt; ==================================
&gt; Status Ring Pending Node
&gt; ------------------------------------------------------------
&gt; -------------------
&gt; valid 18.8% -- 'riak-node1@64.137.190.244'
&gt; valid 18.8% -- 'riak-node2@64.137.247.82'
&gt; valid 18.8% -- 'riak-node3@64.137.162.64'
&gt; valid 25.0% -- 'riak-node4@64.137.161.229'
&gt; valid 18.8% -- 'riak-node5@64.137.217.73'
&gt; ------------------------------------------------------------
&gt; -------------------
&gt; Valid:5 / Leaving:0 / Exiting:0 / Joining:0 / Down:0
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; ------------------------------------------------------------
&gt; -----------------------------------------------------------------
&gt;
&gt; - Ring
&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; riak-admin status | grep ring
&gt;
&gt; ring\_creation\_size : 64
&gt; ring\_members : ['riak-node1@64.137.190.244','riak-node2@64.137.247.82', '
&gt; riak-node3@64.137.162.64','riak-node4@64.137.161.229', '
&gt; riak-node5@64.137.217.73']
&gt; ring\_num\_partitions : 64
&gt; ring\_ownership : &lt;&lt;"[{'riak-node2@64.137.247.82',12},\n {'
&gt; riak-node5@64.137.217.73',12},\n {'riak-node1@64.137.190.244',12},\n {'
&gt; riak-node3@64.137.162.64',12},\n {'riak-node4@64.137.161.229',16}]"&gt;&gt;
&gt; rings\_reconciled : 0
&gt; rings\_reconciled\_total : 31
&gt;
&gt; ------------------------------------------------------------
&gt; -----------------------------------------------------------------
&gt;
&gt; \* The riak client :
&gt;
&gt; + riak-erlang-client: https://github.com/basho/riak-erlang-client
&gt; + release : 2.4.2
&gt;
&gt; ------------------------------------------------------------
&gt; -----------------------------------------------------------------
&gt;
&gt; \* Riak client API used:
&gt;
&gt; + Insert/Update:
&gt;
&gt; riakc\_pb\_socket:update\_type(Pid, {Bucket-Type, Bucket}, Key,
&gt; riakc\_map:to\_op(Map), []).
&gt;
&gt; + Fetch :
&gt;
&gt; riakc\_pb\_socket:fetch\_type(Pid, {BucketType, Bucket}, Key, []).
&gt;
&gt; ------------------------------------------------------------
&gt; -----------------------------------------------------------------
&gt;
&gt; \* Step to perform an update :
&gt;
&gt; - Fetch document
&gt; - Update document
&gt;
&gt; ------------------------------------------------------------
&gt; -----------------------------------------------------------------
&gt;
&gt; \* Data got from fetch\_type:
&gt;
&gt; {map, [{{&lt;&lt;"account\_id"&gt;&gt;,register}, &lt;&lt;"accounta25a424b8484181e8ba1bec
&gt; 25bf7c491"&gt;&gt;},
&gt; {{&lt;&lt;"created\_by\_id"&gt;&gt;,register}, 
&gt; &lt;&lt;"accounta25a424b8484181e8ba1bec25bf7c491"&gt;&gt;},
&gt; {{&lt;&lt;"created\_time\_dt"&gt;&gt;,register},&lt;&lt;"2017-01-27T03:34:04Z"&gt;&gt;},
&gt; {{&lt;&lt;"currency"&gt;&gt;,register},&lt;&lt;"cad"&gt;&gt;}, 
&gt; {{&lt;&lt;"end\_time"&gt;&gt;,register},&lt;&lt;"dont\_use"&gt;&gt;},
&gt; {{&lt;&lt;"id"&gt;&gt;,register},&lt;&lt;"menufe89488afa948875cab6b0b18d579f21"&gt;&gt;},
&gt; {{&lt;&lt;"maintain\_mode\_b"&gt;&gt;,register},&lt;&lt;"false"&gt;&gt;},
&gt; {{&lt;&lt;"menu\_category\_revision\_id"&gt;&gt;,register}, &lt;&lt;"0-
&gt; 634736bc14e0bd3ed7e3fe0f1ee64443"&gt;&gt;}, {{&lt;&lt;"name"&gt;&gt;,register},&lt;&lt;"fullmenu"&gt;&gt;},
&gt; {{&lt;&lt;"order\_i"&gt;&gt;,register},&lt;&lt;"0"&gt;&gt;}, {{&lt;&lt;"rest\_location\_p"&gt;&gt;,register},
&gt; &lt;&lt;"10.844117421366443,106.63982392275398"&gt;&gt;}, {{&lt;&lt;"restaurant\_id"&gt;&gt;,register},
&gt; &lt;&lt;"rest848e042b3a0488640981c8a6dc4a8281"&gt;&gt;}, 
&gt; {{&lt;&lt;"restaurant\_status\_id"&gt;&gt;,register},&lt;&lt;"inactive"&gt;&gt;},
&gt; {{&lt;&lt;"start\_time"&gt;&gt;,register},&lt;&lt;"dont\_use"&gt;&gt;},
&gt; {{&lt;&lt;"status\_id"&gt;&gt;,register},&lt;&lt;"hide"&gt;&gt;}, {{&lt;&lt;"updated\_by\_id"&gt;&gt;,register},
&gt; &lt;&lt;"accounta25a424b8484181e8ba1bec25bf7c491"&gt;&gt;}, {{&lt;&lt;"updated\_time\_dt"&gt;&gt;,
&gt; register},&lt;&lt;"2017-02-06T17:22:39Z"&gt;&gt;}],
&gt; [],
&gt; [], &lt;&lt;131,108,0,0,0,3,104,2,109,0,0,0,12,39,21,84,209,219,42,57,
&gt; 233,0,0,156,252,97,34,104,2,109,0,0,0,12,132,107,248,226,
&gt; 103,5,182,208,0,0,118,2,97,40,104,2,109,0,0,0,12,137,252,
&gt; 139,186,176,202,25,96,0,0,195,164,97,54,106&gt;&gt;}
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \* Update with update\_type
&gt;
&gt; Below is Map data before using riakc\_map:to\_op(Map) :
&gt;
&gt; {map, [] ,
&gt; [{{&lt;&lt;"account\_id"&gt;&gt;,register},{register,&lt;&lt;&gt;&gt;,&lt;&lt;"
&gt; accounta25a424b8484181e8ba1bec25bf7c491"&gt;&gt;}},{{&lt;&lt;"created\_
&gt; by\_id"&gt;&gt;,register},{register,&lt;&lt;&gt;&gt;,&lt;&lt;"accounta25a424b8484181e8ba1bec
&gt; 25bf7c491"&gt;&gt;}},{{&lt;&lt;"created\_time\_dt"&gt;&gt;,register},{
&gt; register,&lt;&lt;&gt;&gt;,&lt;&lt;"2017-01-27T03:34:04Z"&gt;&gt;}},{{&lt;&lt;"currency"&gt;&gt;,register},{
&gt; register,&lt;&lt;&gt;&gt;,&lt;&lt;"cad"&gt;&gt;}},{{&lt;&lt;"end\_time"&gt;&gt;,register},{
&gt; register,&lt;&lt;&gt;&gt;,&lt;&lt;"dont\_use"&gt;&gt;}},{{&lt;&lt;"id"&gt;&gt;,register},{register,&lt;&lt;&gt;&gt;,&lt;&lt;"
&gt; menufe89488afa948875cab6b0b18d579f21"&gt;&gt;}},{{&lt;&lt;"maintain\_
&gt; mode\_b"&gt;&gt;,register},{register,&lt;&lt;&gt;&gt;,&lt;&lt;"false"&gt;&gt;}},{{&lt;&lt;"menu\_
&gt; category\_revision\_id"&gt;&gt;,register},{register,&lt;&lt;&gt;&gt;,&lt;&lt;"0-
&gt; 634736bc14e0bd3ed7e3fe0f1ee64443"&gt;&gt;}},{{&lt;&lt;"name"&gt;&gt;,register}
&gt; ,{register,&lt;&lt;&gt;&gt;,&lt;&lt;"fullmenu"&gt;&gt;}},{{&lt;&lt;"order\_i"&gt;&gt;,register},{
&gt; register,&lt;&lt;&gt;&gt;,&lt;&lt;"0"&gt;&gt;}},{{&lt;&lt;"rest\_location\_p"&gt;&gt;,register},{
&gt; register,&lt;&lt;&gt;&gt;,&lt;&lt;"10.844117421366443,106.63982392275398"&gt;&gt;}},{{&lt;&lt;"
&gt; restaurant\_id"&gt;&gt;,register},{register,&lt;&lt;&gt;&gt;,&lt;&lt;"
&gt; rest848e042b3a0488640981c8a6dc4a8281"&gt;&gt;}},{{&lt;&lt;"restaurant\_
&gt; status\_id"&gt;&gt;,register},{register,&lt;&lt;&gt;&gt;,&lt;&lt;"inactive"&gt;&gt;}}
&gt; ,{{&lt;&lt;"start\_time"&gt;&gt;,register},{register,&lt;&lt;&gt;&gt;,&lt;&lt;"dont\_use"&gt;&gt;}
&gt; },{{&lt;&lt;"status\_id"&gt;&gt;,register},{register,&lt;&lt;&gt;&gt;,&lt;&lt;"show"&gt;&gt;}},{{
&gt; &lt;&lt;"updated\_by\_id"&gt;&gt;,register},{register,&lt;&lt;&gt;&gt;,&lt;&lt;"
&gt; accounta25a424b8484181e8ba1bec25bf7c491"&gt;&gt;}},{{&lt;&lt;"updated\_
&gt; time\_dt"&gt;&gt;,register},{register,&lt;&lt;&gt;&gt;,&lt;&lt;"2017-02-06T17:22:39Z"&gt;&gt;}}],
&gt; [] , &lt;&lt;131,108,0,0,0,3,104,2,109,0,0,0,12,39,21,84,209,219,42,
&gt; 57,233,0,0,156,252,97,34,104,2,109,0,0,0,12,132,107,248,
&gt; 226,103,5,182,208,0,0,118,2,97,39,104,2,109,0,0,0,12,137,
&gt; 252,139,186,176,202,25,96,0,0,195,164,97,53,106&gt;&gt;
&gt; }
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; -
&gt;
&gt; Best regards,
&gt; Hue Tran
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

