---
title: "Re: O(n) behavior on crdts"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-03-31T23:23:33-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13961"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13960"
author_name: "Russell Brown"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-03-31T23:23:33-07:00
---


Hey James,

I haven’t analysed the complexity of the data types. Off hand I know that 
operations on Maps, Sets, Counters etc are not O(n). Merges sometimes will be, 
if every entry must be compared, and we’re looking at ways to optimise this. 
The `value` operation on Maps and Sets must be O(n) since we have to derive the 
correct value for each entry. I’m not sure how we would optimise that.

We’ve optimised the `context` for operations down to a single version vector 
(before it was a binary of the entire Map or Set), which should have got us 
some performance improvements.

Right now Sets and Maps still use orddict. We have a round of performance and 
scalability testing starting, and hopefully some optimisations will come out of 
that.

I think you’re referring to Sean’s porting of Elixir’s TreeMap to erlang. We 
have not yet tested that code, nor have we integrated it with riak\_dt. I don’t 
know if anyone even plans to.

Have you observed poor performance from the data types? The earlier releases' 
main performance issue was to/from binary encoding. We since switched to 
erlangs built in t2b/b2t functions, with compression, and have found the 
performance to be acceptable.

I guess the short answer is: we’re working on it, but with 2.0 release looming 
up, we might not get all the way there in time.

There is some cost for using CRDTs, I don’t think it could be another way, 
there aren’t any free lunches. My aim is to reduce that cost below the pain 
barrier of siblings, and writing complex merge functions.

Cheers

Russell

On 31 Mar 2014, at 23:06, James Moore  wrote:

&gt; Hey All,
&gt; 
&gt; has there been any progress on resolving the O(n) behavior of crdt sets and 
&gt; maps?
&gt; 
&gt; Sean mentioned in a previous thread that there was a potential for a fix to 
&gt; resolve the poor performance of erlang's orddict.
&gt; 
&gt; thanks!
&gt; 
&gt; --James
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

