---
title: "Re: Hard time with Riak 2.0.0pre5 features"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-11-20T13:06:08-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13044"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13033"
author_name: "Valter Balegas"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-11-20T13:06:08-08:00
---


Hello,

Here is the sequence of commands:

--Compiled Riak with "make rel" and riak-erlang-client with “make". Erlang 
version R16B02; using the latest version on GitHub or the riak2.0.0.5pre 
package.

./bin/riak stop

--changed the consensus flag to true on ./etc/riak.conf

./bin/riak start

.bin//riak-admin bucket-type create bucket '{"props": {"consistent": true}}'
./bin/riak-admin bucket-type activate bucket

./bin/riak stop
./bin/riak start

on a erlang console, initialized with:

./erts-5.10.3/bin/erl -pa ../riak-erlang-client/ebin 
../riak-erlang-client/deps/\*/ebin

f(Pid), {ok, Pid} = riakc\_pb\_socket:start\_link("localhost", 8087).
NewA = riakc\_obj:new(&lt;&lt;"bucket"&gt;&gt;, &lt;&lt;"key"&gt;&gt;, &lt;&lt;"my binary data"&gt;&gt;).
NewB = riakc\_obj:new(&lt;&lt;"bucket"&gt;&gt;, &lt;&lt;"key"&gt;&gt;, &lt;&lt;"my other binary data"&gt;&gt;).
riakc\_pb\_socket:put(Pid, NewA, [return\_body]).
{ok,{riakc\_obj,&lt;&lt;"bucket"&gt;&gt;,&lt;&lt;"key"&gt;&gt;,
 &lt;&lt;107,206,97,96,96,96,204,96,202,5,82,28,202,156,255,126,
 6,245,74,255,202,96,74,...&gt;&gt;,
 [{{dict,2,16,16,8,80,48,
 {[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],...},
 {{[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],...}}},
 &lt;&lt;"my binary data"&gt;&gt;}],
 undefined,undefined}}
5&gt; riakc\_pb\_socket:put(Pid, NewB, [return\_body]).
{ok,{riakc\_obj,&lt;&lt;"bucket"&gt;&gt;,&lt;&lt;"key"&gt;&gt;,
 &lt;&lt;107,206,97,96,96,96,204,96,202,5,82,28,202,156,255,126,
 6,245,74,255,202,96,74,...&gt;&gt;,
 [{{dict,2,16,16,8,80,48,
 {[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],...},
 {{[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],...}}},
 &lt;&lt;"my binary data"&gt;&gt;},
 {{dict,2,16,16,8,80,48,
 {[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],...},
 {{[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],...}}},
 &lt;&lt;"my other binary data"&gt;&gt;}],
 undefined,undefined}}

bin/riak-admin bucket-type status bucket
bucket is active

young\_vclock: 20
w: quorum
small\_vclock: 50
rw: quorum
r: quorum
pw: 0
precommit: []
pr: 0
postcommit: []
old\_vclock: 86400
notfound\_ok: true
n\_val: 3
linkfun: {modfun,riak\_kv\_wm\_link\_walker,mapreduce\_linkfun}
last\_write\_wins: false
dw: quorum
consistent: true
chash\_keyfun: {riak\_core\_util,chash\_std\_keyfun}
big\_vclock: 50
basic\_quorum: false
allow\_mult: true
active: true
claimant: 'riak@127.0.0.1

bin/riak-admin bucket-type list
bucket (active)



No dia 20/11/2013, às 17:23, Jordan West  escreveu:

&gt; Hi Valter,
&gt; 
&gt; Could you provide the code you are using to generate the concurrent requests 
&gt; in addition to the output of `riak-admin bucket-type list` and `riak-admin 
&gt; bucket-type status ` where  is the name of the 
&gt; strongly consistent bucket you created (from one node should be sufficient)? 
&gt; I've been using this feature in a personal project and just tested on a local 
&gt; cluster using curl and was unable to reproduce (the cluster was a bit behind 
&gt; develop but there have been no recent changes to the feature).
&gt; 
&gt; Cheers,
&gt; Jordan 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Wed, Nov 20, 2013 at 5:30 AM, Valter Balegas  wrote:
&gt; Hello,
&gt; 
&gt; I was able to activate strong consistency, but the node keeps generating 
&gt; siblings, when i execute two concurrent writes (Store two objects without 
&gt; vector clock).
&gt; I tried with the Riak 2.0.0.5pre package and the latest version on the 
&gt; repository. Am i missing anything? i was expecting operations to fail, in 
&gt; this case.
&gt; 
&gt; It seems that the error was caused by my Erlang version. The creation of the 
&gt; bucket type didn’t fail with R16B02.
&gt; 
&gt; Valter
&gt; 
&gt; No dia 20/11/2013, às 03:13, Jordan West  escreveu:
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Valter,
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; You mentioned you are using a recent develop. Would you be able to pull down 
&gt;&gt; any recent changes and update-deps (or build a fresh devrel)? I just tried a 
&gt;&gt; fresh clone of develop and was unable to reproduce the same error. I, also, 
&gt;&gt; tried with R15B01 (Riak 2.0 is slated to use R16B02 right now). 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Alternatively, you should be able to workaround this by doing a `riak 
&gt;&gt; attach-direct` and defining the atom at the erlang shell:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 1&gt; consistent.
&gt;&gt; consistent
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Jordan
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On Tue, Nov 19, 2013 at 3:06 PM, Valter Balegas  wrote:
&gt;&gt; I can’t create the bucket type:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; RPC to 'riak@127.0.0.1' failed: {'EXIT',
&gt;&gt; {badarg,
&gt;&gt; [{erlang,list\_to\_existing\_atom,
&gt;&gt; ["consistent"],
&gt;&gt; []},
&gt;&gt; {riak\_kv\_wm\_utils,erlify\_bucket\_prop,1,
&gt;&gt; [{file,"src/riak\_kv\_wm\_utils.erl"},
&gt;&gt; {line,393}]},
&gt;&gt; {riak\_kv\_console,
&gt;&gt; '-bucket\_type\_create/2-lc$^0/1-0-',1,
&gt;&gt; [{file,"src/riak\_kv\_console.erl"},
&gt;&gt; {line,483}]},
&gt;&gt; {riak\_kv\_console,bucket\_type\_create,2,
&gt;&gt; [{file,"src/riak\_kv\_console.erl"},
&gt;&gt; {line,483}]},
&gt;&gt; {rpc,'-handle\_call\_call/6-fun-0-',5,
&gt;&gt; [{file,"rpc.erl"},{line,203}]}]}}
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; I activated the consensus in riak.conf in the etc dir (find command seems 
&gt;&gt; not to find the pattern anywhere else).
&gt;&gt; Is there any other way to create the bucket?
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Valter
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; No dia 19/11/2013, às 18:10, Jordan West  escreveu:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; On Tue, Nov 19, 2013 at 7:33 AM, Valter Balegas  wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Strong consistency:
&gt;&gt;&gt; How does one activate this? As i understand, either the pb or the http 
&gt;&gt;&gt; clients do not accept the consistent property.
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Using strong consistency in the Tech Preview is a two-step process. First, 
&gt;&gt;&gt; turn on the feature in your riak.conf (the following command assumes you 
&gt;&gt;&gt; are using a devrel):
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; for d in dev/dev\*; do sed -e 's/## enable\_consensus = true/enable\_consensus 
&gt;&gt;&gt; = true/' -i $d/etc/riak.conf; done
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Then re(start) the cluster.
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; With the enable\_consensus=true un-commented and the cluster running create 
&gt;&gt;&gt; a strongly consistent bucket type:
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-admin bucket-type create  '{"props": {"consistent": true}}'
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-admin bucket-type activate 
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; You can create and activate the bucket type without having 
&gt;&gt;&gt; enabled\_consensus=true but both must be done to work with strongly 
&gt;&gt;&gt; consistent data.
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Once that is done you can make requests, just like you would to eventually 
&gt;&gt;&gt; consistent data in Riak, but the semantics will be different. For example, 
&gt;&gt;&gt; if you make two PUT requests to the same key, w/ no vector clock\*, the 
&gt;&gt;&gt; second request will fail because the data already exists. More details on 
&gt;&gt;&gt; semantics of strongly consistent requests can be found in this PR: 
&gt;&gt;&gt; https://github.com/basho/riak\_kv/pull/710
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Hope that helps get you started,
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Jordan
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; \* in strong consistency, the "vector clock" is not really a vector clock. 
&gt;&gt;&gt; its called such for familiarity, but like any real vector clock exposed to 
&gt;&gt;&gt; the client, should be treated like an opaque context.
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Details about my environment:
&gt;&gt;&gt; -I’m running Mac OSX 10.9
&gt;&gt;&gt; -Erlang R15B01
&gt;&gt;&gt; -Compiling riak “develop” branch, from basho github
&gt;&gt;&gt; -Compiling riak-erlang-client “master” branch, from basho github.
&gt;&gt;&gt; -recompiled the latest versions of the branches just before writing this 
&gt;&gt;&gt; email.
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Thank you for your help,
&gt;&gt;&gt; Valter
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

