---
title: "Re: Migrating to riak 2.1.4, selecting a specific multi-backend from	the Java Client"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2016-08-09T11:49:26-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg17579"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg17578"
author_name: "Alex Moore"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2016-08-09T11:49:26-07:00
---


Hey Henning,

Almost everything is stored in bitcask, but for some
&gt; progress-information-items, we are using the memory backend with
&gt; automatic expiration. Thus, the multibackend is being configured
&gt; (app.config for the old nodes, riak.conf for the new nodes). In the
&gt; past, I have configured bucket properties in Java (here in
&gt; riak-java-client 2 syntax):

...

&gt; Is this equivalent to specifying a bucket type?


Not exactly, that code will set the backend for that bucket, which is in
the default bucket type.
If you need to specify a bucket-type, it's just an extra parameter on the
Namespace ctor:

Namespace ns = new Namespace(bucketType, bucketName);

If you'd like everything in a bucket-type to be on the memory backend, you
should be able to specify that backend in the bucket type properties when
creating it with riak-admin. The bucket type'd namespace wont' be available
to the old Riak nodes though :/


 How does a cluster behave where some nodes have the multibackend

configured (in riak.conf), and others not (because you forgot)?
&gt; What happens if you configure the multibackend afterwards? Is the
&gt; bucket with all its data being migrated? Can you detect in which
&gt; \*backend\* an object is located?


Anything without the multibackend config should automatically save/load to
whatever the configured (or default) backend is. If you configure it
afterwards, the data won't be available b/c it's on a backend it's now not
configured for.

If you need to move it, it's possible to use Multi-backend + a temp bucket
to move the data from the old backend to the new one - it's a bit of a
procedure though.

Thanks,
Alex


On Tue, Aug 9, 2016 at 10:42 AM, Henning Verbeek 
wrote:

&gt; We're slowly migrating our application from Riak KV 1.4 to Riak KV
&gt; 2.1.4, and at the same time riak-java-client 1.4.x to riak-java-client
&gt; 2.0.6. We are doing this by adding seven new Riak KV 2.1 nodes to the
&gt; ring, and later removing the seven Riak KV 1.4 nodes from the ring.
&gt; For a few days, the cluster will consist of a mix.
&gt;
&gt; Almost everything is stored in bitcask, but for some
&gt; progress-information-items, we are using the memory backend with
&gt; automatic expiration. Thus, the multibackend is being configured
&gt; (app.config for the old nodes, riak.conf for the new nodes). In the
&gt; past, I have configured bucket properties in Java (here in
&gt; riak-java-client 2 syntax):
&gt;
&gt; Namespace ns = new Namespace(bucketName);
&gt; StoreBucketProperties.Builder builder = new
&gt; StoreBucketProperties.Builder(ns);
&gt; builder.withBackend(backendName);
&gt; riakClient.execute(builder.build());
&gt;
&gt; Is this equivalent to specifying a bucket type?
&gt;
&gt; How does a cluster behave where some nodes have the multibackend
&gt; configured (in riak.conf), and others not (because you forgot)?
&gt; What happens if you configure the multibackend afterwards? Is the
&gt; bucket with all its data being migrated? Can you detect in which
&gt; \*backend\* an object is located?
&gt;
&gt; Thanks guys! Cheers, Henning
&gt; --
&gt; My other signature is a regular expression.
&gt; http://www.pray4snow.de
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

