---
title: "Re: Limiting the number of entries in a set"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-01-31T12:02:07-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15620"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15618"
author_name: "Alexander Sicular"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-01-31T12:02:07-08:00
---


Riak sets (and data types by extension) are good but not great. The are gonna 
get better over time but still be saddled with the difficulties of 
distribution. Redis is able to do what it does because a. It's not distributed 
and b. It's single threaded. I recommend that if you need the atomic guarantees 
of redis data types you go ahead and use them. And then periodically flush your 
redis data to riak for high availability and fault tolerant backup. It's not 
elegant, it has edge case scenarios but it gets you a best of both worlds 
solution. 

Best,
Alexander


@siculars
http://siculars.posthaven.com

Sent from my iRotaryPhone

&gt; On Jan 31, 2015, at 13:11, Shawn Debnath  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; Good morning,
&gt; 
&gt; Wondering if there is a better way to do truncation of a set if entries 
&gt; exceed a certain threshold. I am trying to create a canonical timeline for 
&gt; every user in our system, set of UUID strings. We want the number of entries 
&gt; to be limited to about 1000 per timeline to keep the size of each KV object 
&gt; in check inside Riak and also not store unnecessary data. From looking around 
&gt; code and docs, there doesn’t seem to be a Redis style LTRIM option available. 
&gt; So is the only way to enforce this is to fetch the set, check count, trim it 
&gt; locally and then update?
&gt; 
&gt; My fear is that by using CRDTs, a set add wins over remove in the case of a 
&gt; conflict. If there were to be 1000 conflicting concurrent updates each trying 
&gt; to trim and add one entry to a set that already contains 1000 entries, I 
&gt; imagine the final count of the set would be 2000. This can be greatly 
&gt; exasperated on a very “friendly” or popular person’s timeline and the code 
&gt; never being able to truncate the set back to 1000.
&gt; 
&gt; Any thoughts or suggestions appreciated.
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; 
&gt; Shawn
&gt; freenode (sde)
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

