---
title: "Re: RIAK 1.4.6 - Mass key deletion"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-04-06T07:03:52-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14011"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13665"
author_name: "Matthew Von-Maszewski"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-04-06T07:03:52-07:00
---


Edgar,

In Riak 1.4, there is no advantage to using empty values versus deleting.

leveldb is a "write once" data store. New data for a given key never 
physically overwrites old data for the same key. New data "hides" the old data 
by being in a lower level, and therefore picked first.

leveldb's compaction operation will remove older key/value pairs only when the 
newer key/value is pair is part of a compaction involving both new and old. 
The new and the old key/value pairs must have migrated to adjacent levels 
through normal compaction operations before leveldb will see them in the same 
compaction. The migration could take days, weeks, or even months depending 
upon the size of your entire dataset and the rate of incoming write operations.

leveldb's "delete" object is exactly the same as your empty JSON object. The 
delete object simply has one more flag set that allows it to also be removed if 
and only if there is no chance for an identical key to exist on a higher level.

I apologize that I cannot give you a more useful answer. 2.0 is on the horizon.

Matthew


On Apr 6, 2014, at 7:04 AM, Edgar Veiga  wrote:

&gt; Hi again!
&gt; 
&gt; Sorry to reopen this discussion, but I have another question regarding the 
&gt; former post.
&gt; 
&gt; What if, instead of doing a mass deletion (We've already seen that it will be 
&gt; non profitable, regarding disk space) I update all the values with an empty 
&gt; JSON object "{}" ? Do you see any problem with this? I no longer need those 
&gt; millions of values that are living in the cluster... 
&gt; 
&gt; When the version 2.0 of riak runs stable I'll do the update and only then 
&gt; delete those keys!
&gt; 
&gt; Best regards
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On 18 February 2014 16:32, Edgar Veiga  wrote:
&gt; Ok, thanks a lot Matthew.
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On 18 February 2014 16:18, Matthew Von-Maszewski  wrote:
&gt; Riak 2.0 is coming. Hold your mass delete until then. The "bug" is within 
&gt; Google's original leveldb architecture. Riak 2.0 sneaks around to get the 
&gt; disk space freed.
&gt; 
&gt; Matthew
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Feb 18, 2014, at 11:10 AM, Edgar Veiga  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; The only/main purpose is to free disk space..
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; I was a little bit concerned regarding this operation, but now with your 
&gt;&gt; feedback I'm tending to don't do nothing, I can't risk the growing of 
&gt;&gt; space... 
&gt;&gt; Regarding the overhead I think that with a tight throttling system I could 
&gt;&gt; control and avoid overloading the cluster.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Mixed feelings :S
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On 18 February 2014 15:45, Matthew Von-Maszewski  wrote:
&gt;&gt; Edgar,
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; The first "concern" I have is that leveldb's delete does not free disk 
&gt;&gt; space. Others have executed mass delete operations only to discover they 
&gt;&gt; are now using more disk space instead of less. Here is a discussion of the 
&gt;&gt; problem:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; https://github.com/basho/leveldb/wiki/mv-aggressive-delete
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; The link also describes Riak's database operation overhead. This is a 
&gt;&gt; second "concern". You will need to carefully throttle your delete rate or 
&gt;&gt; the overhead will likely impact your production throughput.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; We have new code to help quicken the actual purge of deleted data in Riak 
&gt;&gt; 2.0. But that release is not quite ready for production usage.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; What do you hope to achieve by the mass delete?
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Matthew
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On Feb 18, 2014, at 10:29 AM, Edgar Veiga  wrote:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Sorry, forgot that info!
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; It's leveldb.
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Best regards
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; On 18 February 2014 15:27, Matthew Von-Maszewski  wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt; Which Riak backend are you using: bitcask, leveldb, multi?
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Matthew
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; On Feb 18, 2014, at 10:17 AM, Edgar Veiga  wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; Hi all!
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; I have a fairly trivial question regarding mass deletion on a riak 
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; cluster, but firstly let me give you just some context. My cluster is 
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; running with riak 1.4.6 on 6 machines with a ring of 256 nodes and 1Tb 
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; ssd disks.
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; I need to execute a massive object deletion on a bucket, I'm talking of 
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; ~1 billion keys (The object average size is ~1Kb). I will not retrive the 
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; keys from riak because a I have a file with all of them. I'll just start 
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; a script that reads them from the file and triggers an HTTP DELETE for 
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; each one.
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; The cluster will continue running on production with a quite high load 
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; serving all other applications, while running this deletion.
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; My question is simple, do I need to have any kind of extra concerns 
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; regarding this action? Do you advise me on taking special attention to 
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; any kind of metrics regarding riak or event the servers where it's 
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; running?
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; Best regards!
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

