---
title: "Re: Riak 2.0.0 RC1"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-07-21T15:00:06-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14523"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14520"
author_name: "Jared Morrow"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-07-21T15:00:06-07:00
---


The clients are still being finalized. Word on the street is the Java
client RC will be very soon, and the other clients will follow. The person
who would know best has today off, but stay tuned.

Thanks,
Jared


On Mon, Jul 21, 2014 at 3:38 PM, Alex De la rosa 
wrote:

&gt; Awesome! Can't wait to try it! What about the python client for Riak 2.0?
&gt; I remember testing the actual version and still have many issues and
&gt; non-workable new features (like counters, sets, maps, etc.)
&gt;
&gt; Thanks!
&gt; Alex
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Mon, Jul 21, 2014 at 11:34 PM, Jared Morrow  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Riak-Users,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Everyone at Basho is extremely happy to announce the public availability
&gt;&gt; of Riak 2.0.0 RC. As a release candidate, we do not recommend using it in
&gt;&gt; production, but it should be considered feature and API complete for Riak
&gt;&gt; 2.0 final. We reserve the right to make changes for any data-loss or severe
&gt;&gt; performance issues found post-RC, but these will not affect the API.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; This is our most ambitious release, with major new features throughout
&gt;&gt; the product. With that in mind, please take plenty of time to read through
&gt;&gt; the Release Notes. There are some important considerations regarding
&gt;&gt; upgrades, known issues, and packaging. The Release Notes are still a
&gt;&gt; work-in-progress and will be continually updated as we march towards 2.0
&gt;&gt; final. We have made a lot of progress on our docs site
&gt;&gt;  for 2.0, but still have work to do before final
&gt;&gt; release. We appreciate your patience.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; -
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \*Release Notes\*:
&gt;&gt; https://github.com/basho/riak/blob/2.0/RELEASE-NOTES.md
&gt;&gt; -
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \*Downloads\*: http://docs.basho.com/riak/2.0.0/downloads/
&gt;&gt; Note: There will be minor tweaks to the download site to show the
&gt;&gt; labels for SuSE Enterprise Linux and Ubuntu 14.04 packages
&gt;&gt; -
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \*APT/YUM Repos\* (see release-notes re: this change):
&gt;&gt; https://packagecloud.io/basho/riak/install Note: If you are
&gt;&gt; downloading the files directly, use our docs site. For apt/yum repo
&gt;&gt; install, use packagecloud.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks to everyone in our community,
&gt;&gt; -Team Basho
&gt;&gt; ​
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

