---
title: "Re: Erlang crash dump viewer with Riak crash dumps"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-02-12T23:26:57-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15709"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15694"
author_name: "Bryan Hunt"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-02-12T23:26:57-08:00
---


I can't even get the gui to initialize on osx. I've been using the viewer
from R17 with success. I use kerl to maintain multiple erlang versions on
my system.
On 12 Feb 2015 11:16, "Simon Hartley"  wrote:

&gt; I am attempting to use the Erlang crash dump viewer application
&gt; (erl5.9.1\lib\observer-1.1\priv\bin\cdv.bat) to view a crash dump generated
&gt; by Riak 1.4.9
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; The app hangs on the message “Processing Timers” and the following output
&gt; is seen in the console:
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; =ERROR REPORT==== 12-Feb-2015::11:12:26 ===
&gt;
&gt; Error in process &lt;0.81.0&gt; on node 'cdv@WH5001654' with exit value:
&gt; {badarg,[{erlang,list\_to\_pid,["riak\_kv\_entropy\_manager"],[]},{crashdump\_viewer,'-get\_timers/2-fun-0-',2,[{file,"crashdump\_viewer.erl"},{line,1498}]},{crashdump\_viewer,progress\_map,4,[{file,"crashdump\_viewer.erl"},{line,2585}]}]}
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; =ERROR REPORT==== 12-Feb-2015::11:12:26 ===
&gt;
&gt; Error in process &lt;0.84.0&gt; on node 'cdv@WH5001654' with exit value:
&gt; {badarg,[{erlang,list\_to\_pid,["riak\_core\_capability"],[]},{crashdump\_viewer,'-get\_timers/2-fun-0-',2,[{file,"crashdump\_viewer.erl"},{line,1498}]},{crashdump\_viewer,progress\_map,4,[{file,"crashdump\_viewer.erl"},{line,2585}]}]}
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; =ERROR REPORT==== 12-Feb-2015::11:12:26 ===
&gt;
&gt; Error in process &lt;0.78.0&gt; on node 'cdv@WH5001654' with exit value:
&gt; {badarg,[{erlang,list\_to\_pid,["riak\_core\_vnode\_manager"],[]},{crashdump\_viewer,'-get\_timers/2-fun-0-',2,[{file,"crashdump\_viewer.erl"},{line,1498}]},{crashdump\_viewer,progress\_map,4,[{file,"crashdump\_viewer.erl"},{line,2585}]}]}
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; =ERROR REPORT==== 12-Feb-2015::11:12:26 ===
&gt;
&gt; Error in process &lt;0.83.0&gt; on node 'cdv@WH5001654' with exit value:
&gt; {badarg,[{erlang,list\_to\_pid,["riak\_core\_claimant"],[]},{crashdump\_viewer,'-get\_timers/2-fun-0-',2,[{file,"crashdump\_viewer.erl"},{line,1498}]},{crashdump\_viewer,progress\_map,4,[{file,"crashdump\_viewer.erl"},{line,2585}]}]}
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; It looks very much like the crash dump file is not valid for the viewer
&gt; app, surely this can’t be the case?
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; What am I doing wrong?
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \*Simon Hartley\*
&gt;
&gt; Solutions Architect
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Email: simon.hart...@williamhill.com
&gt;
&gt; Skype: \*+44 (0)113 397 6747 &lt;%2B44%20%280%29113%20397%206747&gt;\*
&gt;
&gt; Skype: \*sijomons\*
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \*William Hill Online\*, St. Johns, Merrion St. Leeds, LS2 8LQ
&gt;
&gt; [image: Description: Description: Description:
&gt; cid:image002.png@01CC2FFA.24244CF0]
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Confidentiality: The contents of this e-mail and any attachments
&gt; transmitted with it are intended to be confidential to the intended
&gt; recipient; and may be privileged or otherwise protected from disclosure. If
&gt; you are not an intended recipient of this e-mail, do not duplicate or
&gt; redistribute it by any means. Please delete it and any attachments and
&gt; notify the sender that you have received it in error. This e-mail is sent
&gt; by a William Hill PLC group company. The William Hill group companies
&gt; include, among others, William Hill PLC (registered number 4212563),
&gt; William Hill Organization Limited (registered number 278208), William Hill
&gt; US HoldCo Inc, WHG (International) Limited (registered number 99191) and
&gt; WHG Trading Limited (registered number 101439). Each of William Hill PLC,
&gt; William Hill Organization Limited is registered in England and Wales and
&gt; has its registered office at Greenside House, 50 Station Road, Wood Green,
&gt; London N22 7TP. William Hill U.S. HoldCo, Inc. is 160 Greentree Drive,
&gt; Suite 101, Dover 19904, Kent, Delaware, United States of America. Each of
&gt; WHG (International) Limited and WHG Trading Limited is registered in
&gt; Gibraltar and has its registered office at 6/1 Waterport Place, Gibraltar.
&gt; Unless specifically indicated otherwise, the contents of this e-mail are
&gt; subject to contract; and are not an official statement, and do not
&gt; necessarily represent the views, of William Hill PLC, its subsidiaries or
&gt; affiliated companies. Please note that neither William Hill PLC, nor its
&gt; subsidiaries and affiliated companies can accept any responsibility for any
&gt; viruses contained within this e-mail and it is your responsibility to scan
&gt; any emails and their attachments. William Hill PLC, its subsidiaries and
&gt; affiliated companies may monitor e-mail traffic data and also the content
&gt; of e-mails for effective operation of the e-mail system, or for security,
&gt; purposes..
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

