---
title: "Re: Riak-CS-Control"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-07-02T17:41:07-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11378"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg11377"
author_name: "Christopher Meiklejohn"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-07-02T17:41:07-07:00
---


Unfortunately that error doesn't really provide any additional information 
useful for debugging. We've got an issue filed in GitHub to get that replaced 
with something more meaningful (and not a crash dump). This will be addressed 
for the next release. 

What's happening here is that the S3 command to the Riak CS cluster is failing 
for some reason; to rule out a Riak CS Control vs. Riak CS/stanchion 
configuration issue, can you try to retrieve the user listing manually using a 
S3 tool (in the same manner that the UI does)?

You can find information about retrieving the user listing here:

https://github.com/basho/riak\_cs/wiki/User-Management

- Chris

-- 
Christopher Meiklejohn
Software Engineer
Basho Technologies, Inc.



On Tuesday, July 2, 2013 at 8:35 PM, Guy Morton wrote:

&gt; Done, and all apps restarted. No difference. 
&gt; 
&gt; Here's what I get in the logs:
&gt; 
&gt; 2013-07-02 17:32:53.578 [error] &lt;0.12662.0&gt; webmachine error: path="/users"
&gt; {"create\_path not a 
&gt; string",{error,{error,badarg,[{erlang,binary\_to\_list,[undefined],[]},{riak\_cs\_control\_wm\_users,extract\_key\_id,1,[{file,"src/riak\_cs\_control\_wm\_users.erl"},{line,60}]},{riak\_cs\_control\_wm\_users,create\_path,2,[{file,"src/riak\_cs\_control\_wm\_users.erl"},{line,68}]},{webmachine\_resource,resource\_call,3,[{file,"src/webmachine\_resource.erl"},{line,183}]},{webmachine\_resource,do,3,[{file,"src/webmachine\_resource.erl"},{line,141}]},{webmachine\_decision\_core,resource\_call,1,[{file,"src/webmachine\_decision\_core.erl"},{line,48}]},{webmachine\_decision\_core,decision,1,[{file,"src/webmachine\_decision\_core.erl"},{line,440}]},{webmachine\_decision\_core,handle\_request,2,[{file,"src/webmachine\_decision\_core.erl"},{line,33}]}]}}}
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; --
&gt; Guy Morton
&gt; Web Development Manager
&gt; Brüel & Kjær EMS
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; From: Christopher Meiklejohn [cmeiklej...@basho.com 
&gt; (mailto:cmeiklej...@basho.com)]
&gt; Sent: Wednesday, 3 July 2013 12:59 AM
&gt; To: Guy Morton
&gt; Cc: riak-users@lists.basho.com (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
&gt; Subject: Re: Riak-CS-Control
&gt; 
&gt; Hi Guy,
&gt; 
&gt; Can you try changing cs\_proxy\_host and cs\_proxy\_port to the same values as 
&gt; cs\_hostname and cs\_port? Right now, it's configured for localhost and a port 
&gt; that Riak CS is not listening on.
&gt; 
&gt; I believe you are experiencing the same issue as outlined here:
&gt; 
&gt; https://github.com/basho/riak\_cs\_control/issues/31
&gt; 
&gt; - Chris
&gt; 
&gt; --
&gt; Christopher Meiklejohn
&gt; Software Engineer
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Tuesday, July 2, 2013 at 3:36 AM, Guy Morton wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; &gt; Hi Chris
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; The video didn't include any information that I hadn't figured out. My 
&gt; &gt; problem is that I can't get it to work. I get the nice riak-cs admin page 
&gt; &gt; in my browser on port 8000 but it shows no users (perhaps reasonable 
&gt; &gt; because I only have succeeded in creating a single user so far - the admin 
&gt; &gt; user) and the create user function fails (with the error previously 
&gt; &gt; mentioned).
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; I've sent you my config files, though since then I've tried what feels like 
&gt; &gt; a thousand variants all to no avail. If the config is wrong enough riak-cs 
&gt; &gt; won't start, and when it does I can't do a thing.
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; I'm sure Riak cs is a great product, once it's set up! I just don't seem to 
&gt; &gt; be able to get over that hurdle.
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; --
&gt; &gt; Guy Morton
&gt; &gt; Web Development Manager
&gt; &gt; Brüel & Kjær EMS
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt; From: Christopher Meiklejohn [cmeiklej...@basho.com 
&gt; &gt; (mailto:cmeiklej...@basho.com)]
&gt; &gt; Sent: Monday, 1 July 2013 4:26 PM
&gt; &gt; To: Guy Morton
&gt; &gt; Cc: riak-users@lists.basho.com (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
&gt; &gt; Subject: Re: Riak-CS-Control
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; Hi Guy,
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; Here is a good video introduction to configuring Riak CS Control:
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; http://basho.com/getting-started-with-riak-cs-control/
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; Let me know if you run into any specific issues and I'm happy to help. I'm 
&gt; &gt; also lurking in the #riak room on Freenode (nick: cmeiklejohn) if you need 
&gt; &gt; further help (any of us should be able to!)
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; - Chris
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; --
&gt; &gt; Christopher Meiklejohn
&gt; &gt; Software Engineer
&gt; &gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; On Monday, July 1, 2013 at 2:14 AM, Guy Morton wrote:
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; Also, I just found this - riak-cs-control... None of the install/config 
&gt; &gt; &gt; documents I saw previously mentioned it, or that it should be configured, 
&gt; &gt; &gt; or how. It seems to control the web interface referred to in my last 
&gt; &gt; &gt; email...
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; Where is the most up-to-date info about Riak CS and how to set it up? I 
&gt; &gt; &gt; am trying to set it up on Debian squeeze and I'm still floundering. I 
&gt; &gt; &gt; seem very close to having it working, but not quite. It's a bit 
&gt; &gt; &gt; frustrating! Is it just me, or is it complex to get working?
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; --
&gt; &gt; &gt; Guy Morton
&gt; &gt; &gt; Web Development Manager
&gt; &gt; &gt; Brüel & Kjær EMS
&gt; &gt; &gt; This e-mail is confidential and may be read, copied and used only by the 
&gt; &gt; &gt; intended recipient. If you have received it in error, please contact the 
&gt; &gt; &gt; sender immediately by return e-mail. Please then delete the e-mail and do 
&gt; &gt; &gt; not disclose its contents to any other person.
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
&gt; &gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; This e-mail is confidential and may be read, copied and used only by the 
&gt; &gt; intended recipient. If you have received it in error, please contact the 
&gt; &gt; sender immediately by return e-mail. Please then delete the e-mail and do 
&gt; &gt; not disclose its contents to any other person.
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; This e-mail is confidential and may be read, copied and used only by the 
&gt; intended recipient. If you have received it in error, please contact the 
&gt; sender immediately by return e-mail. Please then delete the e-mail and do not 
&gt; disclose its contents to any other person. 



\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

