---
title: "Re: Number of ports for Riak"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-08-15T05:46:51-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14659"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14656"
author_name: "Ciprian Manea"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-08-15T05:46:51-07:00
---


Hi Simon,

Quick answer: the more (ports open), the merrier. At least 6.

As these are Erlang specific settings, I recommend having a look at the
official answer [0].

[0] http://www.erlang.org/faq/how\_do\_i.html#idp27500560


Regards,
Ciprian


On Fri, Aug 15, 2014 at 3:15 PM, Simon Hartley &lt;
simon.hart...@williamhill.com&gt; wrote:

&gt; Hi,
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; In the security documentation here:
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/ops/advanced/security/
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Instructions are given for how to limit the port ranges used for internode
&gt; communications. E.g.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; { kernel, [
&gt;
&gt; {inet\_dist\_listen\_min, 6000},
&gt;
&gt; {inet\_dist\_listen\_max, 7999}
&gt;
&gt; ]},
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Are there any recommendations on how many ports should be allowed. I’m
&gt; assume this is related to the number of nodes in the cluster, and possible
&gt; some details of the clients.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Can anyone provide guidance on this?
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Simon.
&gt; Confidentiality: The contents of this e-mail and any attachments
&gt; transmitted with it are intended to be confidential to the intended
&gt; recipient; and may be privileged or otherwise protected from disclosure. If
&gt; you are not an intended recipient of this e-mail, do not duplicate or
&gt; redistribute it by any means. Please delete it and any attachments and
&gt; notify the sender that you have received it in error. This e-mail is sent
&gt; by a William Hill PLC group company. The William Hill group companies
&gt; include, among others, William Hill PLC (registered number 4212563),
&gt; William Hill Organization Limited (registered number 278208), William Hill
&gt; US HoldCo Inc, WHG (International) Limited (registered number 99191) and
&gt; WHG Trading Limited (registered number 101439). Each of William Hill PLC,
&gt; William Hill Organization Limited is registered in England and Wales and
&gt; has its registered office at Greenside House, 50 Station Road, Wood Green,
&gt; London N22 7TP. William Hill U.S. HoldCo, Inc. is 160 Greentree Drive,
&gt; Suite 101, Dover 19904, Kent, Delaware, United States of America. Each of
&gt; WHG (International) Limited and WHG Trading Limited is registered in
&gt; Gibraltar and has its registered office at 6/1 Waterport Place, Gibraltar.
&gt; Unless specifically indicated otherwise, the contents of this e-mail are
&gt; subject to contract; and are not an official statement, and do not
&gt; necessarily represent the views, of William Hill PLC, its subsidiaries or
&gt; affiliated companies. Please note that neither William Hill PLC, nor its
&gt; subsidiaries and affiliated companies can accept any responsibility for any
&gt; viruses contained within this e-mail and it is your responsibility to scan
&gt; any emails and their attachments. William Hill PLC, its subsidiaries and
&gt; affiliated companies may monitor e-mail traffic data and also the content
&gt; of e-mails for effective operation of the e-mail system, or for security,
&gt; purposes..
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

