---
title: "Re: costs of scaling riak compared to mangodb"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-03-31T13:25:06-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10632"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg10580"
author_name: "Mark Phillips"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-03-31T13:25:06-07:00
---


Hey Norman,

On Mon, Mar 25, 2013 at 8:43 AM, Norman Khine  wrote:

&gt; hello,
&gt; would you have any cost comparison analysis document which looks at a
&gt; running a riak cluster versus mongodb sharded cluster, i am asking as
&gt; i have been tasked to compare the cost of infrastructure when the
&gt; volume of data is large. We are storing the information of our users
&gt; advertising campaigns
&gt; on a collection of about 30 million documents now, which would increase.
&gt; Each document is composed of elements that are arrays of objects (the
&gt; objects for a given elements have the same structure) We now have 6
&gt; elements that can be composed of 1 to many objects (up to 50-100)
&gt; Any advice much appreciated.
&gt;
&gt;
Right now there's nothing purpose built that compares the operation/scaling
costs of Riak and Mango. On the anecdotal side of things, Will Moss wrote a
great email to the list a while back about what to keep in mind when making
the transition [1]. 30MM documents in Riak is trivial. The queries are
probably going to be a bit harder to translate...

That said, let's see if we can quantify this for you. A few questions:

How many docs do you expect to have in six months?
What are the queries you're doing on them?
Current total data set size?
What's the median ops/second? Max?
Read to write ratio?
Current cluster hardware specifics and cloud provider (if applicable) if
you can share.

Thanks,

Mark

[1]
http://riak.markmail.org/search/?q=moss%2C+mongo#query:moss%2C%20mongo+page:1+mid:vkmeuu6ailcguecl+state:results


&gt; --
&gt; %&gt;&gt;&gt; "".join( [ {'\*':'@','^':'.'}.get(c,None) or
&gt; chr(97+(ord(c)-83)%26) for c in ",adym,\*)&uzq^zqf" ] )
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

