---
title: "Re: Contributing to Riak code-base, adding patches for optional	useful features"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-09-18T12:06:07-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16541"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16540"
author_name: "Matthew Brender"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-09-18T12:06:07-07:00
---


Hi Muntasir,

Thank you for sharing this work! I agree with Chris: please open a detailed
pull request when you have the time. I will be sure to route it to our
internal teams once you share.

Have a great weekend,
Matt

\*Matt Brender | Developer Advocacy Lead\*
Basho Technologies
t: @mjbrender 


On Fri, Sep 18, 2015 at 2:28 PM, Christopher Meiklejohn &lt;
christopher.meiklej...@gmail.com&gt; wrote:

&gt; Hi Muntasir,
&gt;
&gt; I would probably submit a detailed pull request to Riak KV with the
&gt; changes, and a proper way to verify they work correctly.
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; Chris
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Fri, Sep 18, 2015 at 11:15 AM, Rahman, Muntasir Raihan
&gt;  wrote:
&gt; &gt; Hi Chris,
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; We made changes to Riak KV repository to add a control knob. The
&gt; adaptive control mechanism is a separate middleware layer which uses the
&gt; control knob we added to Riak KV. In addition to that we wrote a Riak YCSB
&gt; connector, which is also not part of the Riak code base.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Thanks
&gt; &gt; Muntasir.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; -----Original Message-----
&gt; &gt; From: Christopher Meiklejohn [mailto:christopher.meiklej...@gmail.com]
&gt; &gt; Sent: Friday, September 18, 2015 12:08 PM
&gt; &gt; To: Rahman, Muntasir Raihan
&gt; &gt; Cc: riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; Subject: Re: Contributing to Riak code-base, adding patches for optional
&gt; useful features
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Hi Muntasir,
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; What repositories did you modify to provide this functionality? Does it
&gt; exist purely as a middleware layer, or was any work done on Riak Core or KV?
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; - Chris
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; On Fri, Sep 18, 2015 at 9:57 AM, Rahman, Muntasir Raihan &lt;
&gt; mrahm...@illinois.edu&gt; wrote:
&gt; &gt;&gt; Hi,
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; I am a PhD student working on distributed key-value storage systems
&gt; &gt;&gt; like Riak. Recently we have built an adaptive middleware framework
&gt; &gt;&gt; which can continuously tune kv store configurations (e.g., via
&gt; &gt;&gt; existing tuning knobs, and newly added/proposed knobs) to meet
&gt; &gt;&gt; consistency/availability service level agreements under changing
&gt; &gt;&gt; network conditions. We have deployed our system on top of Riak via a
&gt; &gt;&gt; small amount of code change in Riak (which could be submitted as a
&gt; &gt;&gt; patch), so that kv store developers can automatically tune the system
&gt; &gt;&gt; to meet SLAs. Now we are interested to contribute to the Riak community
&gt; by adding our code to the Riak code base via a patch.
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; Can anyone kindly suggest how to go about this? Any suggestions would
&gt; &gt;&gt; be highly appreciated.
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; Thanks
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; Muntasir.
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

