---
title: "Re: Announcing riak-scala-client 0.8.0"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-03-18T08:03:46-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10463"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg10462"
author_name: "Mark Phillips"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-03-18T08:03:46-07:00
---


Hi Age,

Thanks for sending this along. It looks awesome. And nice work on the
docs, too. :)

&gt; This is the first public release but I've been testing it on a large project
&gt; since January and it was time to let other people kick the tires and tell me
&gt; what I did wrong (or right).

Any chance you can give any details on how you kicked the tires and
how it's being used in production? I would be interested to know what
hoops you made it jump through. :)

Thanks again. Nice work.

Mark
twitter.com/pharkmillups



On Sun, Mar 17, 2013 at 5:23 PM, Age Mooij  wrote:
&gt; Hi
&gt;
&gt; After three months of hacking, I'm proud to announce a new Riak Scala client
&gt; library based on Akka and Spray and simply called riak-scala-client. It aims
&gt; to be easy to use, non-blocking, and fast, in that order.
&gt;
&gt; http://riak.scalapenos.com/
&gt;
&gt; This is the first public release but I've been testing it on a large project
&gt; since January and it was time to let other people kick the tires and tell me
&gt; what I did wrong (or right).
&gt;
&gt; The client is purely based on the http API and currently it supports the
&gt; following Riak features:
&gt;
&gt; - Fetch
&gt; - Store
&gt; - Delete
&gt; - Secondary Indexes (2i)
&gt; - Fetching exact matches
&gt; - Fetching ranges
&gt; - Storing with indexes
&gt; - Getting/setting bucket properties
&gt; - ping
&gt;
&gt; Other features include:
&gt;
&gt; - Completely non-blocking thanks to Scala 2.10 Futures, Akka, and Spray
&gt; - Transparent integration with Akka projects through an Akka extension
&gt; - An untyped RiakValue class for interacting with raw Riak values and their
&gt; associated
&gt; meta data (vclock, etag, content type, last modified time, indexes, etc.)
&gt; - A typed RiakMeta[T] class for interacting with deserialized values while
&gt; retaining
&gt; their associated meta data (vclock, etag, content type, last modified
&gt; time, indexes, etc.)
&gt; - Customizable conflict resolution on all fetches (and stores when
&gt; returnbody=true)
&gt; - Automatic (de)serialization of Scala (case) classes using type classes
&gt; - builtin spray-json (de)serializers
&gt; - Automatic indexing of Scala (case) classes using type classes
&gt; - Auto-retry of fetches and stores (a standard feature of the underlying
&gt; spray-client library)
&gt;
&gt; The following Riak (http) API features are still missing and will follow
&gt; soon:
&gt;
&gt; - Link walking
&gt; - Map Reduce
&gt; - Listing all keys in a bucket
&gt; - Listing all buckets
&gt; - Conditional fetch/store semantics (i.e. If-None-Match and If-Match for
&gt; ETags and
&gt; If-Modified-Since and If-Unmodified-Since for LastModified)
&gt; - Node Status
&gt;
&gt; Check it out at: http://riak.scalapenos.com/
&gt;
&gt; Cheers,
&gt; Age
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

