---
title: "Re: Migration from memcachedb to riak"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-07-10T02:06:32-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11434"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg11433"
author_name: "Edgar Veiga"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-07-10T02:06:32-07:00
---


Hi Guido.

Thanks for your answer!

Bitcask it's not an option due to the amount of ram needed.. We would need
a lot more of physical nodes so more money spent...

Instead we're using less machines with SSD disks to improve elevelDB
performance.

Best regards



On 10 July 2013 09:58, Guido Medina  wrote:

&gt; Well, I rushed my answer before, if you want performance, you probably
&gt; want Bitcask, if you want compression then LevelDB, the following links
&gt; should help you decide better:
&gt;
&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riak/1.2.0/tutorials/choosing-a-backend/Bitcask/
&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riak/1.2.0/tutorials/choosing-a-backend/LevelDB/
&gt;
&gt; Or multi, use one as default and then the other for specific buckets:
&gt;
&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riak/1.2.0/tutorials/choosing-a-backend/Multi/
&gt;
&gt; HTH,
&gt;
&gt; Guido.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On 10/07/13 09:53, Guido Medina wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Then you are better off with Bitcask, that will be the fastest in your
&gt; case (no 2i, no searches, no M/R)
&gt;
&gt; HTH,
&gt;
&gt; Guido.
&gt;
&gt; On 10/07/13 09:49, Edgar Veiga wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Hello all!
&gt;
&gt; I have a couple of questions that I would like to address all of you
&gt; guys, in order to start this migration the best as possible.
&gt;
&gt; Context:
&gt; - I'm responsible for the migration of a pure key/value store that for now
&gt; is being stored on memcacheDB.
&gt; - We're serializing php objects and storing them.
&gt; - The total size occupied it's ~2TB.
&gt;
&gt; - The idea it's to migrate this data to a riak cluster with elevelDB
&gt; backend (starting with 6 nodes, 256 partitions. This thing is scaling very
&gt; fast).
&gt; - We only need to access the information by key. \*We won't need neither
&gt; map/reduces, searches or secondary indexes\*. It's a pure key/value store!
&gt;
&gt; My questions are:
&gt; - Do you have any riak fine tunning tip regarding this use case (due to
&gt; the fact that we will only use the key/value capabilities of riak)?
&gt; - It's expected that those 2TB would be reduced due to the levelDB
&gt; compression. Do you think we should compress our objects to on the client?
&gt;
&gt; Best regards,
&gt; Edgar Veiga
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing 
&gt; listriak-users@lists.basho.comhttp://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

