---
title: "Re: RIAK Search - Active Anti-Entropy"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-01-09T12:07:11-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15466"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15465"
author_name: "Luke Bakken"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-01-09T12:07:11-08:00
---


Nirav,

You will have to GET and PUT every object to index it into Solr.
--
Luke Bakken
Engineer
lbak...@basho.com


On Fri, Jan 9, 2015 at 10:54 AM, Nirav Shah  wrote:
&gt; Hi Luke,
&gt;
&gt; Let me rephrase it.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; 1. We currently have 2i based searches in our code. We are trying to move it
&gt; to Solr as per Basho’s recommendation
&gt;
&gt; 2. To achieve this we created Solr schema. But when we tried it in dev, we
&gt; noticed Solr indexes only gets created for the new data and not for existing
&gt; data (captured prior to enabling Solr search)
&gt;
&gt; 3. To be able to implement Solr search successfully, we need to make sure
&gt; that Solr indexes existing data in current RIAK bucket.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; Nirav
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; From: Luke Bakken 
&gt; To: Nirav Shah 
&gt; Cc: "riak-users@lists.basho.com" 
&gt; Sent: Friday, January 9, 2015 10:22 AM
&gt;
&gt; Subject: Re: RIAK Search - Active Anti-Entropy
&gt;
&gt; Hi Nirav,
&gt;
&gt; If I'm reading your description correctly - you'd like your secondary
&gt; index data to be automatically migrated to Riak Search?
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Luke Bakken
&gt; Engineer
&gt; lbak...@basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Wed, Jan 7, 2015 at 10:36 PM, Nirav Shah  wrote:
&gt;&gt; Hi Luke,
&gt;&gt; Can you please advice. ?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; "I have a production database which is fairly large and uses Secondary
&gt;&gt; Indexes. I was planning to move away from Secondary Index to RIAK
&gt;&gt; Search(SOLR). Can someone please let me know if Active Anti-Entropy will
&gt;&gt; take care of ensuring that all the existing data that i currently have in
&gt;&gt; Production will be automatically synced up once i move to RIAK Search and
&gt;&gt; i
&gt;&gt; should be able to search on those fields. If not, is there any
&gt;&gt; configuration/Settings that can help me achieve this? "
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Regards,
&gt;&gt; Nirav
&gt;
&gt;

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

