---
title: "Re: auto-apply different backend config via bucket name prefix"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-05-19T08:16:25-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14235"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14202"
author_name: "Luke Bakken"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-05-19T08:16:25-07:00
---


Hi Gavin,

You would have to create the tenant-specific backends in advance. I
would recommend creating a minimum set of backends necessary and using
a tenant-specific object prefix as the tenant-specific bucket. For
instance, obj\_1 would be saved using key service1\_bucket1\_obj1.

In general, you should keep the number of buckets with custom
properties (like backend) to a minimum as having many of them could
cause gossip issues in your cluster. Going forward, using bucket types
in Riak 2.0 will help with this issue.
--
Luke Bakken
CSE
lbak...@basho.com


On Thu, May 8, 2014 at 7:32 PM, Gavin Huang  wrote:
&gt; Hi, Luke
&gt;
&gt; Thanks for your reply, I realized that also after some investigation.
&gt; I was wondering if there is other approaches to achieve my requirement.
&gt;
&gt; Here is my situation:
&gt; 1. A tenant can save object to any bucket that with name start with tenant's
&gt; name, for example service1\_bucket1, service2\_bucket2.
&gt;
&gt; 2. these bucket will not be created explicitly, it will leverage riak's
&gt; feature, that saving an object to a non-exits bucket will have this bucket
&gt; created.
&gt;
&gt; my requirement is have different tenant use different backend (both data
&gt; storage type and data dir).
&gt;
&gt; seems the approach will not working in my case, and the pre-hook is for
&gt; buckets that already exists, so is there any other way that i can control
&gt; the behavior when a bucket is being created?
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Thanks.
&gt; Gavin
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Thu, May 8, 2014 at 10:43 PM, Luke Bakken  wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi Gavin,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; The multi\_backend\_prefix\_list feature is for Riak CS's use and is not
&gt;&gt; intended for general use. That being said, the following two configuration
&gt;&gt; lines will direct you to how Riak CS accomplishes this:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; {add\_paths, ["/usr/lib/riak-cs/lib/riak\_cs-1.4.5/ebin"]},
&gt;&gt; {storage\_backend, riak\_cs\_kv\_multi\_backend},
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; Luke Bakken
&gt;&gt; CSE
&gt;&gt; lbak...@basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Wed, Apr 30, 2014 at 2:21 AM, Gavin Huang 
&gt;&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt; &gt; Hi,
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; I know that Riak2 delivered a new feature of bucket type, buckets with
&gt;&gt; &gt; same
&gt;&gt; &gt; bucket type will have same bucket properties and different bucket type
&gt;&gt; &gt; can
&gt;&gt; &gt; have different bucket properties.
&gt;&gt; &gt; however, since Riak2 is still on it's beta version, so think may be I
&gt;&gt; &gt; should
&gt;&gt; &gt; wait for a while before stable version released, so i would stick with
&gt;&gt; &gt; 1.4.7
&gt;&gt; &gt; for now.
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; however, since more than one application is using same riak cluster
&gt;&gt; &gt; right
&gt;&gt; &gt; now, and different application need different storage engine, for
&gt;&gt; &gt; example
&gt;&gt; &gt; application1 need leveldb, while another one application2 need to use
&gt;&gt; &gt; bitcask. so think it's better to use multi-backend in riak cluster.
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; i can achieve that by change app.config:
&gt;&gt; &gt; {storage\_backend, riak\_kv\_multi\_backend},
&gt;&gt; &gt; %%{multi\_backend\_prefix\_list, [{&lt;&lt;"service1\_:"&gt;&gt;, be\_blocks}]},
&gt;&gt; &gt; {multi\_backend\_default, &lt;&lt;"be\_default"&gt;&gt;},
&gt;&gt; &gt; {multi\_backend, [
&gt;&gt; &gt; {&lt;&lt;"be\_default"&gt;&gt;, riak\_kv\_eleveldb\_backend, [
&gt;&gt; &gt; {max\_open\_files, 50},
&gt;&gt; &gt; {data\_root, "/var/lib/riak/leveldb"}
&gt;&gt; &gt; ]},
&gt;&gt; &gt; {&lt;&lt;"be\_blocks"&gt;&gt;, riak\_kv\_bitcask\_backend, [
&gt;&gt; &gt; {data\_root, "/var/lib/riak/bitcask"}
&gt;&gt; &gt; ]},
&gt;&gt; &gt; {&lt;&lt;"for\_service1"&gt;&gt;, riak\_kv\_bitcask\_backend, [
&gt;&gt; &gt; {data\_root, "/var/lib/riak/service1"}
&gt;&gt; &gt; ]},
&gt;&gt; &gt; {&lt;&lt;"for\_service2"&gt;&gt;, riak\_kv\_eleveldb\_backend, [
&gt;&gt; &gt; {data\_root, "/var/lib/riak/service2"}
&gt;&gt; &gt; ]}
&gt;&gt; &gt; ]},
&gt;&gt; &gt; and then:
&gt;&gt; &gt; curl -XPUT http://riak:8098/riak/manually\_created/ -d
&gt;&gt; &gt; '{"props":{"backend":"for\_service1"}}'
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; the problem is I could like to have riak automatically apply backend
&gt;&gt; &gt; setting
&gt;&gt; &gt; by the bucket name prefix, for example:
&gt;&gt; &gt; service1\_bucket11 would use &lt;&lt;"for\_service1"&gt;&gt; as backend, while
&gt;&gt; &gt; service2\_bucket21 would use &lt;&lt;"for\_service2"&gt;&gt; as backend.
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; I know riakcs is using the similar mechanism from:
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; http://docs.basho.com/riakcs/latest/cookbooks/configuration/Configuring-Riak/
&gt;&gt; &gt; {multi\_backend\_prefix\_list, [{&lt;&lt;"0b:"&gt;&gt;, be\_blocks}]},
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; but seems this does not work for me:
&gt;&gt; &gt; {multi\_backend\_prefix\_list, [{&lt;&lt;"service1"&gt;&gt;, &lt;&lt;"for\_service1"&gt;&gt;}]},
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; the newly created bucket did not use bitcask backend as expected, but
&gt;&gt; &gt; using
&gt;&gt; &gt; default leveldb.
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; i'm not familiar with Erlang, can't read through the riak source code,
&gt;&gt; &gt; don't
&gt;&gt; &gt; why it does not work, or did i mis-understand how RiakCS achieve this?
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; Thanks.
&gt;&gt; &gt; Gavin
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

