---
title: "Re: Riak crashing until I delete AEE folders"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-06-15T10:37:36-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16246"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16244"
author_name: "bryan hunt"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-06-15T10:37:36-07:00
---


Hi Alex, 

Yes, I see the error messages, such as this: 

2015-06-14 22:21:13.005 [error] emulator Error in process &lt;0.20175.11&gt; on node 
‘riak@x.x.x.x' with exit value: 
{function\_clause,[{proplists,get\_value,[n\_val,{error,no\_type},undefined],[{file,"proplists.erl"},{line,225}]},{riak\_kv\_util,get\_index\_n,1,[{file,"src/riak\_kv\_util.erl"},{line,190}]},{yz\_index\_hashtree,'-fold\_keys/2-fun-0-'...

It’s an old bug, a race condition related to the creation and activation of 
bucket types.
https://github.com/basho/riak\_kv/issues/872 


It was fixed in the following commit, although it doesn’t have seem to have 
made it into your 2.0.1 build.

https://github.com/basho/riak\_test/commit/7cd264556498a8e6ebdf1f383f5d59fbaecf7f0a?diff=split
 


2.0.1 is way, way, old. I’d recommend a jump to 2.0.6, it’s a much more stable 
release, or 2.1.1 for the latest hotness.

Best Regards,

Bryan Hunt




&gt; On 15 Jun 2015, at 17:25, Alex De la rosa  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; Hi Bryan
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks for your help : )
&gt; 
&gt; Here you have the /var/logs/folder in a zip file.
&gt; 
&gt; I was using Ubuntu 14.04 LTS, just 1 node with 3 replicas (not the best, but 
&gt; just for testing purposes).
&gt; 
&gt; I was curious on why deleting the AAE subfolders fixed it, and wondered if in 
&gt; the future i found something similar if that could be a solution... but what 
&gt; if you have massive amount of data, nodes, etc... would this be viable?
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks!
&gt; Alex
&gt; 
&gt; On Mon, Jun 15, 2015 at 5:12 PM, bryan hunt  &gt; wrote:
&gt; Hi Alex,
&gt; 
&gt; Slight confusion in the last response. Just zip up the log files from that 
&gt; node and email them directly to me.
&gt; 
&gt; We’ll take a look.
&gt; 
&gt; B
&gt; 
&gt; &gt; On 15 Jun 2015, at 15:50, Matthew Brender  &gt; &gt; wrote:
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Hey Alex,
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; The best place to start on troubleshooting behaviors like the one you
&gt; &gt; saw is to run `riak-debug`, which is in `/bin`. There's a great deal
&gt; &gt; of data in there which you could upload to a Gist [1] and share with
&gt; &gt; us.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; [1] https://gist.github.com/ 
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Best,
&gt; &gt; Matt
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Developer Advocacy Lead
&gt; &gt; Basho Technologies
&gt; &gt; t: @mjbrender
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; On Sun, Jun 14, 2015 at 3:52 AM, Alex De la rosa
&gt; &gt; &gt; wrote:
&gt; &gt;&gt; My riak node (i was doing some tests with Riak 2.0.0-1 in Ubuntu having 
&gt; &gt;&gt; just
&gt; &gt;&gt; 1 node) and after some time, out of a sudden started crashing and even if i
&gt; &gt;&gt; start it again, it hold running only a few seconds before crashing again.
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; Then I deleted the AEE folders within "anti\_entropy" and "yz\_anti\_entropy"
&gt; &gt;&gt; and is working fine again... I would like to know the reason for that : )
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; Thanks,
&gt; &gt;&gt; Alex
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com 
&gt; &gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com 
&gt; &gt;&gt; 
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com 
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

