---
title: "Re: Question: Riak search and wildcard"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-05-23T02:19:34-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11154"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg11153"
author_name: "kurt campher"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-05-23T02:19:34-07:00
---


Hey Otto

So a fundamental design attribute of Riak (and other key/value stores) is
that data retrieval is done by knowing the key.
To pull the first 10 keys is similar to what one would do in a relational
DB like MySQL.

However with Riak this sort of operation is expensive as a full table scan
is done. The keys are not indexed.

There some work-arounds/solutions though:

 - Use the Riak Secondary index. Documentation is available.
 - Set a key which has as a value all the keys in a list format.
 ['key1', 'key2', etc...]
 - This requires you to maintain this properly and keep the "eventual
 consistency" in mind.

Just my 2 cents.

Hope it helps.





On Thu, May 23, 2013 at 10:07 AM, Otto Kekäläinen wrote:

&gt; 2013/5/23 Simon de Haan :
&gt; &gt; This is documented behaviour of Riak Search's Standard Analyzer
&gt; &gt; Factory:
&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/cookbooks/Riak-Search---Schema/#Standard-Analyzer-Factory
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; "3. Strip out any tokens smaller than 3 characters as well as
&gt; &gt; stopwords (common English words)."
&gt;
&gt; Thanks!
&gt;
&gt; What about my actual goal, can I in any way retrieve with search or
&gt; some other feature say the 10 first keys and values from the Riak
&gt; datastore?
&gt;
&gt; Serach with simply "\*" would be cool, since search has build in rows
&gt; and start that allow pagnation.
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

