---
title: "Multiple nodes leaving cluster"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2017-02-07T15:27:13-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg17935"
author_name: "Daniel Miller"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2017-02-07T15:27:13-08:00
---


Hi Riak Users,

In the documentation
 for
riak-admin
cluster leave it says “You can stage multiple leave command before
planning/committing.” This implies that it is safe to stage multiple nodes
leaving the cluster simultaneously. Is that true? Will all data in the
cluster be continuously available during the removal period if, for
example, I setup and commit a plan for 3 nodes to be leave a 9-node cluster
(assuming there is enough space for the data on the remaining 6 nodes)?

I had asked a similar question on IRC a couple weeks ago. In that case I
was asking about replacing multiple nodes simultaneously using riak-admin
cluster replace. The answer I got there left some doubt in my mind as to
whether it is safe (i.e., will not result in a period data availability) to
have multiple nodes leaving the cluster at once. The documentation for
replace implies that it is safe to replace multiple nodes simultaneously as
well: “You can stage multiple replace actions before planning/committing.”

Note that I am not asking about force-remove or force-replace, which I
would expect to result in permanent data loss if multiple nodes are
force-removed/replaced simultaneously.

My cluster is running Riak 2.1.1 with standard nval of 3.

Thanks!
Daniel
​
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

