---
title: "Re: Does riak control work?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-09-09T05:14:46-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12212"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12210"
author_name: "Chris Meiklejohn"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-09-09T05:14:46-07:00
---


Hi David,

We just verified that Control appears to be working fine for that package.
 Can you provide your entire app.config file to help us debug further?

- Chris


On Mon, Sep 9, 2013 at 12:17 PM, David Montgomery  wrote:

&gt; I am using the lastest ubuntu deb package.....
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; https://localhost:8069/admin
&gt;
&gt; I get page not found
&gt;
&gt; The connection was reset
&gt;
&gt; The connection to the server was reset while the page was
&gt; loading.
&gt;
&gt; The site could be temporarily unavailable or too busy. Try again in a few
&gt; moments.
&gt; If you are unable to load any pages, check your computer's network
&gt; connection.
&gt; If your computer or network is protected by a firewall or proxy, make
&gt; sure
&gt; that Firefox is permitted to access the Web.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Is riak running on the port? Yup
&gt;
&gt; root@ubuntu-VirtualBox:/etc/riak# lsof -i :8069
&gt; COMMAND PID USER FD TYPE DEVICE SIZE/OFF NODE NAME
&gt; beam.smp 1376 riak 21u IPv4 3238716 0t0 TCP localhost:8069
&gt; (LISTEN)
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; I followed the instructions here
&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/ops/advanced/riak-control/
&gt;
&gt; %% https is a list of IP addresses and TCP ports that the Riak
&gt; %% HTTPS interface will bind.
&gt; {https, [{ "127.0.0.1", 8069 }]},
&gt;
&gt; %% Set to false to disable the admin panel.
&gt; {enabled, true},
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; So...what could be wrong? Yes..I restarted riak after I make the change
&gt; to the config file.
&gt;
&gt; Thanks
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

