---
title: "Want to access an element from the tuple inside bitsrting inside list"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-05-19T01:06:07-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14228"
author_name: "Gopi Krishna"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-05-19T01:06:07-07:00
---


Hi All,

I am having the data like:

R =
[&lt;&lt;"{\"age\": 24, \"name\": \"krishna\"}"&gt;&gt;,
 &lt;&lt;"{\"age\": 29, \"name\": \"sharat\"}"&gt;&gt;,
 &lt;&lt;"{\"age\": 25, \"name\": \"ramesh\"}"&gt;&gt;,
 &lt;&lt;"{\"age\": 28, \"name\": \"kumar\"}"&gt;&gt;,
 &lt;&lt;"{\"age\": 24, \"name\": \"gopi\"}"&gt;&gt;,
 &lt;&lt;"{\"age\": 27, \"name\": \"anil\"}"&gt;&gt;].

How can i get the age,name value for a particular age/name.

I have tried the following but i am not sure how to get it.

28&gt; list\_to\_tuple(R).
{&lt;&lt;"{\"age\": 24, \"name\": \"krishna\"}"&gt;&gt;,
 &lt;&lt;"{\"age\": 29, \"name\": \"sharat\"}"&gt;&gt;,
 &lt;&lt;"{\"age\": 25, \"name\": \"ramesh\"}"&gt;&gt;,
 &lt;&lt;"{\"age\": 28, \"name\": \"kumar\"}"&gt;&gt;,
 &lt;&lt;"{\"age\": 24, \"name\": \"gopi\"}"&gt;&gt;,
 &lt;&lt;"{\"age\": 27, \"name\": \"anil\"}"&gt;&gt;}

element(1,Tup).
&lt;&lt;"{\"age\": 24, \"name\": \"krishna\"}"&gt;&gt;

.

Please suggest me how to get the age/name.







-- 

Thanks & Regards,
J.Gopi Krishna
+91-8341452934,
www.lintelindia.com
Lintel Technologies Pvt. LTD,Hyderabad.

This message contains confidential information and is intended for
recipient. If you are not the intended recipient you are notified that
disclosing, copying, distributing or taking any action in reliance on the
contents of this information is strictly prohibited. E-mail transmission
cannot be guaranteed to be secure or error-free as information could be
intercepted, corrupted, lost, destroyed, arrive late or incomplete, or
contain viruses. The sender therefore does not accept liability for any
errors or omissions in the contents of this message, which arise as a
result of e-mail transmission. If verification is required please request a
hard-copy version.
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

