---
title: "Re: Status and maturity of riak-cs"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2017-07-20T00:00:01-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg18394"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg18392"
author_name: "Stefan Funk"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2017-07-20T00:00:01-07:00
---


Thanks again Russell and Steve for your input. I answered you before
without adding the group.

We found LeoFS, Ceph and Minio Server to be interesting alternatives - but
haven't tested them.

Furthermore there is Pithos, FakeS3, Eucalyptus, Scality .

And there is Swift.

On Thu, Jul 20, 2017 at 8:35 AM, Russell Brown 
wrote:

&gt; I was really only thinking of LeoFS, Ceph, and Joyent Manta.
&gt;
&gt; There must be others.
&gt;
&gt; Or stay on CS. What do you need to stay on it? Basho were certainly not
&gt; doing anything.
&gt;
&gt; On 20 Jul 2017, at 06:57, Alex De la rosa  wrote:
&gt;
&gt; &gt; "However there are alternatives under active development."... can you
&gt; please list them? I'm also interested on a CS alternative.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Thanks,
&gt; &gt; Alex
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; On Wed, Jul 19, 2017 at 9:27 PM, Russell Brown 
&gt; wrote:
&gt; &gt; Hi Stefan
&gt; &gt; On the one hand, even before the demise of Basho, they’d stopped
&gt; supporting Riak CS. On the other, there is an organisation based in Japan,
&gt; but with an international remote team, that supports other CS customers, so
&gt; may well be a choice of support.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; The CS code base has not had a huge amount of recent attention, but
&gt; there are plenty of people running at, in industry, at reasonable scale.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; There’s a genuine market of providers of ex-Basho products, and a
&gt; community of CS users. However there are alternatives under active
&gt; development.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Regards
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Russell
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; On 19 Jul 2017, at 17:27, Stefan Funk  wrote:
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; Hi everybody,
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; I'm new to Riak-CS and just joined the group.
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; We've been exploring Riak-CS now for a couple of days and consider it
&gt; as a potential inhouse-alternative to external S3-based storage providers.
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; Given the last commit was in January 2016, the question rose as to how
&gt; well the project is supported and how mature the solution is.
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; I'd be very thankful for any comments from the community on this.
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; Best regards
&gt; &gt; &gt; Stefan
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

