---
title: "Re: Installing riak-control"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-03-12T22:27:34-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10402"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg10400"
author_name: "Mark Phillips"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-03-12T22:27:34-07:00
---


Hey Kevin

On Tue, Mar 12, 2013 at 10:05 PM, Kevin Burton  wrote:
&gt; Thank you. I now have the control "working". The 'https' is crossed out in 
&gt; red I am assuming that that is because of the self-signing that is mentioned 
&gt; online.
&gt;
&gt; I notice that Objects, Map/Reduce, Graphs, Logs, and Support are greyed out. 
&gt; Is there another path to this information or are they just a work-in-progress?
&gt;

These are a WIP.

Cmeik put together a doc all about contributing to Control a few weeks
back [1] if you're interested in lending a hand.

Mark

[1] https://github.com/basho/riak\_control/wiki/Contributing-to-Riak-Control

&gt; -----Original Message-----
&gt; From: Christopher Meiklejohn [mailto:cmeiklej...@basho.com]
&gt; Sent: Tuesday, March 12, 2013 10:14 PM
&gt; To: Kevin Burton
&gt; Cc: riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; Subject: Re: Installing riak-control
&gt;
&gt; Hi Kevin,
&gt;
&gt; If you've followed the instructions linked from the Riak Control README on 
&gt; GitHub, you should be able to just specify the path to the files you've 
&gt; built, the extension doesn't matter as long as the files are armored ASCII.
&gt;
&gt; {certfile, "/path/to/crt/file"},
&gt; {keyfile, "/path/to/key/file"}
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Let me know if that doesn't work for you.
&gt;
&gt; - Chris
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Christopher Meiklejohn
&gt; Software Engineer
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Tuesday, March 12, 2013 at 11:06 PM, Kevin Burton wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; I was following the instructions for setting up riak-control and I was 
&gt;&gt; diverted to instructions to create my own certificate. But from what I can 
&gt;&gt; tell I need a .pem file and the instruction don’t include an explanation as 
&gt;&gt; to where the .pem file(s) come from or how to derive them. Ideas?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thank you.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

