---
title: "Re: Rak 13.1 error on start"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-01-28T08:36:17-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13515"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13508"
author_name: "Eric Redmond"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-01-28T08:36:17-08:00
---


Another possibility is that you're not running Erlang R16, which is the new 
requirement.

Eric

On Jan 28, 2014, at 2:08 AM, Daniel Iwan  wrote:

&gt; Hi Eric
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks for that. We change the name during installation but not to 
&gt; riak\_maint\_2989@10.173.240.5 which looks like automatically generated with 
&gt; PID?
&gt; Anyways that error looks more like .erlang\_cookie file not being written 
&gt; correctly (empty). Would it happen due to node name change?
&gt; 
&gt; D
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On 27 January 2014 15:27, Eric Redmond  wrote:
&gt; You started Riak under one name, then changed the name later. However, the 
&gt; ring doesn't know about this change, hence the error. If you need to change a 
&gt; node name, look into the "riak-admin cluster replace" command.
&gt; 
&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/ops/running/tools/riak-admin/#cluster-replace
&gt; 
&gt; Eric
&gt; 
&gt; On Jan 27, 2014 7:04 AM, "Daniel Iwan"  wrote:
&gt; I just got this right after installing Riak and restarting (Ubuntu 12.04.2)
&gt; 
&gt; Node name should be riak@10.173.240.5 but is different in this error msg.
&gt; Vm.args had a correct name ie. riak@10.173.240.5
&gt; Moving content /var/lib/riak, killing all riak processes and manual launch
&gt; via riak start
&gt; fixed it, but still I would like to know what could have caused that.
&gt; 
&gt; .erlang\_cookie was 0 bytes which I guess is the problem.
&gt; How this can happen?
&gt; Strange thing is that beam process was running
&gt; 
&gt; =ERROR REPORT==== 27-Jan-2014::14:15:48 ===
&gt; Too short cookie stringescript: exception error: no match of right hand side
&gt; value
&gt; {error,
&gt; {shutdown,
&gt; {child,undefined,net\_sup\_dynamic,
&gt; {erl\_distribution,start\_link,
&gt; 
&gt; [['riak\_maint\_2989@10.173.240.5',longnames]]},
&gt; permanent,1000,supervisor,
&gt; [erl\_distribution]}}}
&gt; in function nodetool\_\_escript\_\_1390\_\_832147\_\_907784:process\_args/3
&gt; (/usr/lib/riak/erts-5.9.1/bin/nodetool, line 126)
&gt; in call from nodetool\_\_escript\_\_1390\_\_832147\_\_907784:main/1
&gt; (/usr/lib/riak/erts-5.9.1/bin/nodetool, line 15)
&gt; in call from escript:run/2 (escript.erl, line 727)
&gt; in call from escript:start/1 (escript.erl, line 277)
&gt; in call from init:start\_it/1
&gt; in call from init:start\_em/1
&gt; riak\_kv is not up:
&gt; =ERROR REPORT==== 27-Jan-2014::14:15:51 ===
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; Regards
&gt; Daniel
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; --
&gt; View this message in context: 
&gt; http://riak-users.197444.n3.nabble.com/Rak-13-1-error-on-start-tp4030339.html
&gt; Sent from the Riak Users mailing list archive at Nabble.com.
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

