---
title: "Re: leveldb doesn't exist"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-06-24T07:03:52-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11333"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg11332"
author_name: "Hector Castro"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-06-24T07:03:52-07:00
---


Hi Guy,

The Debian package for Riak only creates subdirectories for `ring` and
`bitcask` inside `/var/lib/riak` by default. Once you start Riak with
the updated `app.config`, it'll create the `leveldb` subdirectory for
you.

In order to back Riak CS with Riak, you should be running the updated
Riak `app.config`.

--
Hector


On Mon, Jun 24, 2013 at 1:45 AM, Guy Morton  wrote:
&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riakcs/latest/tutorials/fast-track/Building-a-Local-Test-Environment/
&gt;
&gt; says
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Change the following line in /etc/riak/app.config
&gt;
&gt; {storage\_backend, riak\_kv\_bitcask\_backend}
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; to
&gt;
&gt; {add\_paths, ["/usr/lib64/riak-cs/lib/riak\_cs-1.3.1/ebin"]},
&gt; {storage\_backend, riak\_cs\_kv\_multi\_backend},
&gt; {multi\_backend\_prefix\_list, [{&lt;&lt;"0b:"&gt;&gt;, be\_blocks}]},
&gt; {multi\_backend\_default, be\_default},
&gt; {multi\_backend, [
&gt; {be\_default, riak\_kv\_eleveldb\_backend, [
&gt; {max\_open\_files, 50},
&gt; {data\_root, "/var/lib/riak/leveldb"}
&gt; ]},
&gt; {be\_blocks, riak\_kv\_bitcask\_backend, [
&gt; {data\_root, "/var/lib/riak/bitcask"}
&gt; ]}
&gt; ]},
&gt;
&gt; BUT /var/lib/riak/leveldb does not exist. This is a debian squeeze 
&gt; installation, done via apt-get.
&gt;
&gt; Is it problematic if I just run riak-cs with the original config?
&gt;
&gt; If not, how do I get leveldb on debian squeeze?
&gt;
&gt; regards
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Guy Morton
&gt; Web Development Manager
&gt; Brüel & Kjær EMS
&gt;
&gt; This e-mail is confidential and may be read, copied and used only by the 
&gt; intended recipient. If you have received it in error, please contact the 
&gt; sender immediately by return e-mail. Please then delete the e-mail and do not 
&gt; disclose its contents to any other person.
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

