---
title: "Re: how to initialize keys with strongly consistent property"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-09-22T07:30:11-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16559"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16555"
author_name: "Hristo Asenov"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-09-22T07:30:11-07:00
---


Looks like thet the issue is that some time ago I deleted my bitcask and
AAE directory. Before this I had made a strongly consistent bucket and had
some data in it, but upon deleting those dirs, the data from the strongly
consistent bucket dissapeared, however the bucket type info persisted. That
bucket type is now useless I guess, and the looks like the only way to
delete it is to delete all contents of data dir:
http://stackoverflow.com/questions/27567451/how-to-deactivate-or-delete-a-bucket-type-in-riak.


Thanks for the help,

- Hristo

On Mon, Sep 21, 2015 at 4:46 PM, Zsolt Laky  wrote:

&gt; Hi Hristo,
&gt;
&gt; I had this experience when the consistency subsystem was not ready.
&gt;
&gt; I use riak-admin ensemble-status to check it. It may take 10 minutes to
&gt; have it ready.
&gt;
&gt; What HW are you using? How many nodes are up? Do you use your laptop for
&gt; alk the nodes or you experience the situation in a production envirinment?
&gt; Whar version of RIAK are you working with?
&gt;
&gt; Regards,
&gt; Zsolt
&gt;
&gt; On Sep 21, 2015, at 22:49, Hristo Asenov 
&gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Hello Everyone,
&gt;
&gt; I am trying to use a strongly consistent bucket and cannot initialize any
&gt; of the keys. If I perform a GET on the key I want to write to, I get an
&gt; error that Precondition Failed. However, if I try to write to the key
&gt; without context (since I cannot get a Vector Clock), I get a timeout.
&gt;
&gt; In
&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/dev/advanced/strong-consistency/#Causal-Context
&gt; it
&gt; says that “it is possible to make writes to non-existing keys without
&gt; attaching context”. Also, in
&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/dev/advanced/strong-consistency/#Strongly-Consistent-Writes,
&gt; it says that “If you know that a key does not yet exist, you can write to
&gt; that key without supplying a context with the object”. However, there are
&gt; no instructions on how to actually do that. I am wondering what are the
&gt; commands needed to actually write a value to the key in the first place, so
&gt; that it can read on subsequent writes.
&gt;
&gt; - Hristo
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;


-- 
Hristo Asenov
260 Elkton Rd Apt. C-2
Newark, DE 19711
(732) 604 8349 (c)
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

