---
title: "Re: Implementation of the possibility of \"subscribe\""
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-01-27T06:52:36-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15603"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15594"
author_name: "John Daily"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-01-27T06:52:36-08:00
---


And to answer your original question more directly: no, Riak does not make
update events visible to clients. As Alexander indicates, you're going to
have to implement something extra.

-John

On Monday, January 26, 2015, Alexander Sicular  wrote:

&gt; Well, the general case would be when the client returns a successful write
&gt; you do something. It's just a question of where you do the processing, in
&gt; Riak via a pre/post commit hook or in application space in a client.
&gt; -Alexander
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; @siculars
&gt; http://siculars.posthaven.com
&gt;
&gt; Sent from my iRotaryPhone
&gt;
&gt; On Jan 24, 2015, at 08:55, Никита Нежевский  &gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Thank you for your reply, I will try to use post-commit hooks. But is it
&gt; possible to realize this possibility at riak-erlang-client?
&gt;
&gt; Sat Jan 24 2015 at 0:12:57, John Daily  &gt;:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; You may wish to take a look at the support for post-commit hooks:
&gt;&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/dev/advanced/commit-hooks/
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; -John
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Jan 23, 2015, at 1:54 PM, Никита Нежевский &gt; &gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; Hello.
&gt;&gt; &gt; I've used riak for online processing of incoming data and faced with
&gt;&gt; problem.
&gt;&gt; &gt; I've used riak-erlang client. It has a function that allows to get all
&gt;&gt; keys that are in the bucket. But I'd like to receive data continuously as
&gt;&gt; thay arrive (that is to realize a subscribe)
&gt;&gt; &gt; I asked this question on SO and got the answer that the standart tools
&gt;&gt; to do it will not work.
&gt;&gt; &gt; I'd like to realize this opportunity. Is it possible to do this by
&gt;&gt; modifying the riak-erlang-clent?
&gt;&gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

