---
title: "Re: Riak and host names"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-02-08T03:16:37-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10043"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg09785"
author_name: "Deepak Balasubramanyam"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-02-08T03:16:37-08:00
---


Hi folks,

After trying a couple of configurations, I'd recommend using a VPC on EC2.
I decided to share my experience with a wider audience and wrote about it
on a blog post .
The post details (among other things) why VPC can make your life much
easier. Thank you again for all your suggestions.

Is there a Riak wiki that I can contribute this information to ? It would
be easier for users to choose between deployment solutions if they know
what options are available.

Thanks
-Deepak

On Sat, Jan 12, 2013 at 1:02 PM, Deepak Balasubramanyam &lt;
deepak.b...@gmail.com&gt; wrote:

&gt; Thanks for all the suggestions. I will take some time to review and try
&gt; them out. I'll get back to this thread when I do.
&gt;
&gt; -Deepak
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Thu, Jan 10, 2013 at 3:04 PM, Richard Shaw  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi Matt,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; For stopping and starting rather than rebooting, you need to use
&gt;&gt; elastic IPs inside of Amazon's virtual private cloud[1] which allows
&gt;&gt; for persistent static private addresses.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; [1]http://aws.amazon.com/vpc/
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Regards
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Richard
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Thu, Jan 10, 2013 at 6:09 AM, Matt Black 
&gt;&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt; &gt; A quick update on this subject.
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; Using an Elastic IP won't help with AWS since that only binds to the
&gt;&gt; public
&gt;&gt; &gt; interface - not the internal private one. The hostname command still
&gt;&gt; returns
&gt;&gt; &gt; the same internal IP address as before, which is what's seen by Riak.
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; In AWS an internal IP address will actually persist across reboots. It
&gt;&gt; does
&gt;&gt; &gt; not persist across shutdown and startup.
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

