---
title: "Re: Riak not binding to anything but localhost"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-07-24T08:39:20-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11722"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg11718"
author_name: "John Le Drew"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-07-24T08:39:20-07:00
---


OK, so I just rebuilt from source and changed the -name before
starting, and I'm still getting the same issue.

Is there anything else that might be going wrong here? Perhaps someone
with a bit more knowledge of Riak and able to follow the error log
might be able to shed some light?

Cheers

John

--
John Le Drew

www.antz29.com


On Wed, Jul 24, 2013 at 2:20 PM, Christian Dahlqvist
 wrote:
&gt; Hi John,
&gt;
&gt; As you started up the node set to 127.0.0.1, a ring file was created with 
&gt; this information. As I believe the node is isolated and not yet part of a 
&gt; cluster, you should be able to remove this and restart it with the new IP.
&gt;
&gt; Best regards,
&gt;
&gt; Christian
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On 24 Jul 2013, at 13:14, John Le Drew  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi there
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Trying to get a simple Riak Cluster configured on some VMs. I'm using
&gt;&gt; Ubuntu 12.04 and compiled Riak 1.4 from source. It will start up fine
&gt;&gt; when bound to 127.0.0.1 but after changing the IP in app.config and
&gt;&gt; vm.args it no longer starts.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; The only output I get from Riak start is:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Node 'riak@192.168.123.10' not responding to pings.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I bet more (obviously) from riak console, this is in the Gist linked below.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; All the relevant config files, console outputs and log files are here:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; https://gist.github.com/antz29/f159b7e5400af22dacd8
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Any help would be much appreciated!
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Cheers
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; John
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; John Le Drew
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; www.antz29.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

