---
title: "Re: Questions about the Riak Horizontal Scalability"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-03-07T14:46:37-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13771"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13770"
author_name: "Alexander Sicular"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-03-07T14:46:37-08:00
---


How many physical machines (disks/cores/nics) are in your cluster?

-Alexander

@siculars
http://siculars.posthaven.com

Sent from my iRotaryPhone

&gt; On Mar 6, 2014, at 22:07, "yanqun....@mesheven.com"  
&gt; wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; Greetings all...
&gt; 
&gt; I am running tests with Riak Cluster.
&gt; When this cluster has only one node, the max throughput is about 1500 
&gt; ops/s(CPU becomes the bottleneck).
&gt; But after I added 4 more nodes into the cluster, no matter how I changed the 
&gt; configuration file of Basho benchmark tool,
&gt; the number of throughput have never been more than ~3500 ops/s.
&gt; CPU utilization on each node is about 60~65% (captured by iostat and sar)
&gt; 
&gt; And when I added 5 more nodes(10 nodes totally), it is the same result.
&gt; And CPU utilization on each node is about 60%.
&gt; I can't understand why.
&gt; 
&gt; During the tests, I tried:
&gt; 1)Change ring size from 64 to 128
&gt; 2)Change basho benchmark configuration file, like "mode","concurrent" and 
&gt; "key\_generator"...
&gt; 3)Modify some system limits on both riak nodes and basho bench servers, such 
&gt; as file descriptor , tcp settings.
&gt; 4)Monitoring system like cpu, memory and IO, and none of them become the 
&gt; bottleneck.
&gt; 5)Monitoring the basho bench server, low load.
&gt; 
&gt; Any ideas?
&gt; Or did I make any mistakes in my configuration file?
&gt; 
&gt; Configuration file of Basho benchmark tool:
&gt; ===================================================================
&gt; {mode, max}.
&gt; {duration, 15}.
&gt; {concurrent, 500}.
&gt; {driver, basho\_bench\_driver\_http\_raw}.
&gt; {http\_raw\_ips, 
&gt; ["10.11.20.46","10.11.20.47","10.11.20.48","10.11.20.49","10.11.20.50","10.11.20.51","10.11.20.52","10.11.20.53"]}.
&gt; {http\_raw\_port, 8098}.
&gt; {http\_raw\_path, "/riak/test"}.
&gt; {key\_generator, {partitioned\_sequential\_int, 
&gt; 1000000000000000,8000000000000000}}. %%we want 16 bytes long key-length
&gt; {value\_generator, {fixed\_bin, 1024}}. %%1KB
&gt; {operations, [{insert,4}, {get,6}]}.
&gt; ===============================================================================
&gt; 
&gt; Here are our server specifications(VMs based on Xenserver):
&gt; 1)Riak nodes: 2cores + 4GB RAM + 20GB disk
&gt; 2)Basho benchmark, 4 cores + 4GB RAM, 30GB disk.
&gt; 
&gt; Thank you very much !
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

