---
title: "Re: post installation"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-08-29T21:44:49-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12171"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12170"
author_name: "akonsu"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-08-29T21:44:49-07:00
---


thank you very much. I am building from source because I did not find a
package for my OS (32 bit Ubuntu 13.04). I see only packages for 12.04 and
they are marked as AMD64. I also tried installing using apt-get but when I
added basho repo to my sources and did apt-get update I got some 403 errors
like this guy:
http://askubuntu.com/questions/265347/how-to-install-riak-on-ubuntu-12-10

Konstantin


2013/8/30 Jared Morrow 

&gt; A built release from source uses relative paths in the scripts to locate
&gt; the various erlang start scripts it needs to run. If you are building from
&gt; a rel instead of using the packages, the best thing to do is to move the
&gt; entire 'rel/riak' directory somewhere as a unit. So you can move
&gt; 'rel/riak' to something like /opt/riak then add /opt/riak/bin to your path.
&gt; It is possible to move the rel/riak/bin, lib, data, etc directories
&gt; separately, then adjusting the settings found in the
&gt; rel/riak/etc/app.config.
&gt;
&gt; Is there a particular reason you are building from source and installing
&gt; versus using the packages?
&gt;
&gt; Good luck,
&gt; Jared
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Thu, Aug 29, 2013 at 8:23 PM, akonsu  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hello, I have managed to successfully build riak from github source. In
&gt;&gt; my repository I now have rel/ directory. The guide at
&gt;&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/ops/building/installing/post-install/ 
&gt;&gt; instructs
&gt;&gt; to add the bin/directory to the PATH. My question is what files/directories
&gt;&gt; are actually needed? If I want to move the built release somewhere, what
&gt;&gt; files do I need to move?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks!
&gt;&gt; Konstantin
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

