---
title: "S3ResponseError: 403 Forbidden，backend configuration and riak cs version."
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2016-11-29T01:24:03-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg17787"
author_name: "Neo"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2016-11-29T01:24:03-08:00
---


Hi
I'm new to riak and when i trying object storage with riak cs, i got some
problems.
 i setup riak kv ,stanchion and riak cs in the same node,and configured
them as files here:
http://docs.basho.com/riak/kv/2.2.0/configuring/
http://docs.basho.com/riak/cs/2.1.1/cookbooks/configuration/
and i started all of them successfully.but i still met some problems:
1,
as all these three are cloned from github and compiled, and versions are:
riak kv ——2.0.7
riak cs ——2.1.0
but after compiling ,i met cs\_version = 10300 in riak-cs.conf (by default),
i was confused ,so i try 
riak@riak3:~/riak-cs-2.1.0/rel/riak-cs/bin$ ./riak-cs version
but got nothing, the same situation with riak kv and stanchion,got nothing
too, i was confused ,can someone tell me does this version configuration
important? do i need to configured this? and how to do it ?

2,
i successfully create an account for the admin user, but after i
successfully performanced several tests, and tried to create a nother
account with this :
curl -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
 -XPOST http://127.0.0.1:8080/riak-cs/user \
 --data '{"email":"us...@example.com", "name":"user1"}'
but failed and got this :
curl: (52) Empty reply from server
so why is this and can i and how can i create user accounts after
performance test ?

3,
the last and the most important one. about riak cs's storage backend
configuration.
my riak kv, stanchion and riak cs path are :
/home/riak/riak-2.0.7/rel/riak/bin/riak
/home/riak/stanchion/rel/stanchion/bin/stanchion
/home/riak/riak-cs-2.1.0/rel/riak-cs/bin/riak-cs
and with advance.conf like this:
[
 {riak\_cs,
 [
 ]},
{eleveldb, [
 {total\_leveldb\_mem\_percent, 30}
 ]},
{riak\_kv, [
 {add\_paths,
["/home/riak/riak-cs-2.1.0/rel/riak-cs/lib/riak\_cs-2.1.0/ebin"]},
 {storage\_backend, riak\_cs\_kv\_multi\_backend},
 {multi\_backend\_prefix\_list, [{&lt;&lt;"0b:"&gt;&gt;, be\_blocks}]},
 {multi\_backend\_default, be\_default},
 {multi\_backend, [
 {be\_default, riak\_kv\_eleveldb\_backend, [
 {total\_leveldb\_mem\_percent, 30},
 {data\_root,
"/home/riak/riak-2.0.7/rel/riak/data/leveldb"}
 ]},
 {be\_blocks, riak\_kv\_bitcask\_backend, [
 {data\_root,
"/home/riak/riak-2.0.7/rel/riak/data/bitcask"}
 ]}
 ]}
 ]},
{ssl, [
 {certfile, "./etc/cert.pem"},
 {keyfile, "./etc/key.pem"},
 {cacertfile, "./etc/cacert.pem"}
 ]}
 %% Other configs
my tests works well.
but when i try to change the data\_root in the advance.conf to another
directory like this:
...
 {data\_root, "/mnt/sd8"}
...
 {data\_root, "/mnt/sd8"}
...
then i started to performance testing, and failed,below is the message:
File "test8-2.py", line 16, in 
 bucket = conn.create\_bucket('test4')
 File "/usr/local/lib/python2.7/dist-packages/boto/s3/connection.py", line
625, in create\_bucket
 response.status, response.reason, body)
boto.exception.S3ResponseError: S3ResponseError: 403 Forbidden
xml version="1.0"
encoding="UTF-8"?`AccessDenied`Access
Denied/test4/
can anyone tell me how to fix this error? and how to specify my riak cs's
data\_root to a special data directory?
and my scenario like this:
#/usr/bin/env python
#coding=utf-8
import time
import os
import boto
import boto.s3.connection
access\_key = 'admin.key'
secret\_key = 'admin.secret'
conn = boto.connect\_s3(
 aws\_access\_key\_id = access\_key,
 aws\_secret\_access\_key = secret\_key,
 host = '127.0.0.1', port = 8080,
 ##is\_secure=True,
 calling\_format = boto.s3.connection.OrdinaryCallingFormat(),
 )
bucket = conn.create\_bucket('test4')
...

these problems troubled me about two weeks, so i'm very look forward tha
someone can help me...plz...

Best Regards!
Neo
















--
View this message in context: 
http://riak-users.197444.n3.nabble.com/S3ResponseError-403-Forbidden-backend-configuration-and-riak-cs-version-tp4034722.html
Sent from the Riak Users mailing list archive at Nabble.com.

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

