---
title: "Re: Seeking Backup solution for live nodes"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2016-09-26T06:19:52-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg17668"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg17666"
author_name: "Matthew Von-Maszewski"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2016-09-26T06:19:52-07:00
---


Here are notes on the new hot backup:

https://github.com/basho/leveldb/wiki/mv-hot-backup

This sound like what you need?

Matthew

Sent from my iPad

&gt; On Sep 26, 2016, at 5:39 AM, Niels Christian Sorensen 
&gt;  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; Hi,
&gt; 
&gt; We use Riak-kv Enterprise Edition as base for Riak CS to store files in. Each 
&gt; customer has a separate bucket in the cluster(s) and all data is stored multi 
&gt; site in 3 copies. Thus the "i lost a node" situation is fully covered.
&gt; 
&gt; I need however, a solution for providing customers with a "single instance" 
&gt; backup of their data.
&gt; 
&gt; I am aware of the possibility of tar, cp, scp, what-ever-copy of the data - 
&gt; but this require me to take system off-line according to this:
&gt; https://docs.basho.com/riak/kv/2.1.4/using/cluster-operations/backing-up/
&gt; 
&gt; Also I would still have to restore all customers data (and all involved 
&gt; nodes) - this is not trivial!
&gt; 
&gt; Also I realize that the "riak-admin backup" is deprecated and should be 
&gt; avoided - It seemed like an easy solution to my problem but....
&gt; 
&gt; The s3cmd will allow me to pull out the data and I could most likely write a 
&gt; fantastic automatic script based system to use this - I do not have the time 
&gt; for that and are therefor looking for a commercial or "pre-build - 
&gt; adjustable" solution that will allow me to pull out a single copy of all data 
&gt; stored in a bucket and keep it elsewhere.
&gt; 
&gt; Any ideas / solutions / quotes (as external consultant) on a solution to this 
&gt; problem?
&gt; 
&gt; A plan for recovery is obviously also needed ;-)
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks in advance
&gt; 
&gt; /Christian
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

