---
title: "Re: Riak Search and Sorting"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-07-18T07:29:35-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11591"
author_name: "Ryan Zezeski"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-07-18T07:29:35-07:00
---


Jeremiah,

Sorting is broken in protobuffs currently. Unfortunately the fix got lost
in the cracks.

https://github.com/basho/riak\_search/pull/136

-Z


On Thu, Jul 18, 2013 at 10:11 AM, Jeremiah Peschka &lt;
jeremiah.pesc...@gmail.com&gt; wrote:

&gt; I just confirmed that today I'm getting the correct sorting in the browser
&gt; but not in CorrugatedIron. I'm about to start in on a day of working with a
&gt; client. Will verify this afternoon.
&gt;
&gt; ---
&gt; Jeremiah Peschka - Founder, Brent Ozar Unlimited
&gt; MCITP: SQL Server 2008, MVP
&gt; Cloudera Certified Developer for Apache Hadoop
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Thu, Jul 18, 2013 at 6:55 AM, Ryan Zezeski  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Jeremiah,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; After a quick glance I don't see anything obvious in the code. I notice
&gt;&gt; you have a presort defined. By any chance, if you remove the presort, do
&gt;&gt; you get a correct sorting on the creation\_dt field?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; -Z
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Wed, Jul 17, 2013 at 5:30 PM, Jeremiah Peschka &lt;
&gt;&gt; jeremiah.pesc...@gmail.com&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; I'm attempting to sort data with Riak Search and have run into a
&gt;&gt;&gt; distinct lack of sorting.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; When using curl (The Fullest Featurest Riak Client EVAR™), I query the
&gt;&gt;&gt; following URL:
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://localhost:10038/solr/posts/select?q=title\_txt:google&presort=key&sort=creation\_dt&rows=500
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Being aware that results are sorted AFTER filtering on the server side,
&gt;&gt;&gt; I adjusted my query to accept too many rows: there are 335 rows that meet
&gt;&gt;&gt; my query criteria. However, Riak Search returns 10 sorted by some random
&gt;&gt;&gt; criteria that I'm not aware of (it's not score, that's for sure).
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Is this behavior expected? Is there something that I've missed in my
&gt;&gt;&gt; query?
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; ---
&gt;&gt;&gt; Jeremiah Peschka - Founder, Brent Ozar Unlimited
&gt;&gt;&gt; MCITP: SQL Server 2008, MVP
&gt;&gt;&gt; Cloudera Certified Developer for Apache Hadoop
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

