---
title: "Re: Riak Java client bug?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-09-25T11:23:39-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12386"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12385"
author_name: "Brian Roach"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-09-25T11:23:39-07:00
---


That option is for the connection timeout (i.e. when the connection
pool makes a new connection to Riak).

You can set the read timeout on the socket with the aforementioned
withRequestTimeoutMillis()

The default is the Java default, which is to say it'll block on the
socket read until either there's data to read or the remote side
closes the socket. That would at least get the client "unstuck".

This, however, doesn't explain/solve the real issue you're describing
which is that Riak is hanging up and not sending data.

Someone else will need to chime in on that - are you seeing anything
in the Riak logs?

- Roach

On Wed, Sep 25, 2013 at 12:11 PM, Guido Medina  wrote:
&gt; Like this: ....withConnectionTimeoutMillis(5000).build();
&gt;
&gt; Guido.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On 25/09/13 18:08, Brian Roach wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Guido -
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; When you say "the client is configured to time out" do you mean you're
&gt;&gt; using PB and you set the SO\_TIMEOUT on the socket via the
&gt;&gt; PBClientConfig's withRequestTimeoutMillis()?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; - Roach
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Wed, Sep 25, 2013 at 5:54 AM, Guido Medina 
&gt;&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Hi,
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Streaming 2i indexes is not timing out, even though the client is
&gt;&gt;&gt; configured
&gt;&gt;&gt; to timeout, this coincidentally is causing the writes to fail (or or the
&gt;&gt;&gt; opposite?), is there anything elemental that could "lock" (I know the
&gt;&gt;&gt; locking concept in Erlang is out of the equation so LevelDB?) something
&gt;&gt;&gt; in
&gt;&gt;&gt; Riak while trying to stream a 2i index?
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Basically, our cluster copier which runs every two minutes once it gets
&gt;&gt;&gt; to
&gt;&gt;&gt; this state it never exists (no timeout) and our app just starts slow
&gt;&gt;&gt; writing
&gt;&gt;&gt; (over a minute to write a key)
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Not sure what's going on.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Guido.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

