---
title: "Re: cluster capacity planning, 50M of writes per day"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-03-07T13:21:36-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10357"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg10356"
author_name: "Paul Peregud"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-03-07T13:21:36-08:00
---


It is not really a question of saving 55$ per disk - I'm wondering if such
Riak cluster setup is feasible.


On Thu, Mar 7, 2013 at 10:14 PM, Wes James  wrote:

&gt; You can get crucial m4 512 for $395 on amazon.com. ocz are $450.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; http://www.amazon.com/Crucial-512GB-2-5-Inch-Solid-CT512M4SSD2/dp/B004W2JL3Y
&gt;
&gt; I don't know if you can get these out of the USA or not (you are out of
&gt; USA right?)
&gt;
&gt; wes
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Thu, Mar 7, 2013 at 1:38 PM, Paul Peregud wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; My first post to the list.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I want to store 20M of bounded FIFO queues (each queue has at most 50
&gt;&gt; items, 1KB each). Distribution: 80% of updates at 20% of queues.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Insertion rate: at most 5K per second, random; 50M per day.
&gt;&gt; Reading rate: at most 10K per second, each read reads all 50 items.
&gt;&gt; Once inserted items are not updated. Oldest at each queue is discarded so
&gt;&gt; that queue length &lt;= 50.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; How much hardware I might need? From my calculations I need at least 1000
&gt;&gt; HDDs assuming that seek time is at 7ms (high end). And that is unreal
&gt;&gt; number.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; For this type of load (small random reads/writes) SSD seems to be a
&gt;&gt; perfect match.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I'm looking at the following configuration:
&gt;&gt; 5 of OCZ 512GB Vertex 4 drives at 5 64GB RAM boxes.
&gt;&gt; Riak cluster with N=3.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I'm going for cheaper drives because I assume that Riak will allow me to
&gt;&gt; replace a node if one of disks suddenly dies.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; How crazy is this configuration?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; Best regards,
&gt;&gt; Paul Peregud
&gt;&gt; +48602112091
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;


-- 
Best regards,
Paul Peregud
+48602112091
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

