---
title: "RE: CorrugatedIron & Idle Connection"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-07-11T07:29:10-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11478"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg11477"
author_name: "Amir Halatzi"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-07-11T07:29:10-07:00
---


Just did: https://github.com/DistributedNonsense/CorrugatedIron/issues/153

Still, if we'd like to manage it ourselves - how would you recommend going 
about it? Should we interfere with the way you handle the connection, or just 
retry the action on 'network failure'?

BR,
Amir

From: Jeremiah Peschka [mailto:jeremiah.pesc...@gmail.com]
Sent: 11 July 2013 17:11
To: Amir Halatzi
Cc: riak-users@lists.basho.com
Subject: Re: CorrugatedIron & Idle Connection

We're in the process of figuring out how to best handle killing off idle 
connections inside of CorrugatedIron. If you can head over to 
https://github.com/DistributedNonsense/CorrugatedIron/issues and file a new bug 
report, that would be fantastic.

We've avoided killing off connections until now because we don't want to 
introduce locking into our connection management. Truthfully, we haven't run 
into a bug report where the network team was killing off connections.

So, anyway, if you can submit a bug report we'll get on it. It won't make it 
out for the 1.4.0 release, but we can put that in a point release.

---
Jeremiah Peschka - Founder, Brent Ozar Unlimited
MCITP: SQL Server 2008, MVP
Cloudera Certified Developer for Apache Hadoop

On Thu, Jul 11, 2013 at 6:59 AM, Amir Halatzi 
&gt; wrote:
Hi all,

Trying to optimize our application connection pool, we encountered and issue 
with Corrugated Iron and identifying idle/reset connections. Namely, if our 
network infrastructure (firewall/proxy/etc) closes an idle connection - we're 
getting a 'cluster is offline' error code.

I saw that this is a feature in the making (for the past 8 months), but I was 
wondering if any of you found a way around it?

Thank you,
Amir Halatzi,
ooVoo


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

