---
title: "Re: Bucket creation."
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-02-05T15:17:47-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10004"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg10003"
author_name: "Alexander Sicular"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-02-05T15:17:47-08:00
---


"buckets" are a virtual concept. you dont need to "create" them. just write
a key to any bucket. also by modifying the default bucket parameters, by
adding the search hook on a bucket, let's say, you are also "creating" the
bucket.

-alexander

On Tue, Feb 5, 2013 at 6:09 PM, Kevin Burton wrote:

&gt; \*\* \*\*
&gt;
&gt; I have filed to find code that would create a bucket. It must be in the
&gt; past I have just put objects into a bucket and Riak must construct the
&gt; bucket if it does not exist. Now I would like to create the bucket and set
&gt; some properties on that bucket. But I don’t know how to create the bucket.
&gt; \*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt; \*\* \*\*
&gt;
&gt; So I have code like:\*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt; \*\* \*\*
&gt;
&gt; BuildProduct(source, destination);\*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt; RiakObject value = new RiakObject("products",
&gt; keySku, JsonConvert.SerializeObject(destination))\*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt; {\*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt; ContentType = "application/json"\*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt; };\*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt; \*\* \*\*
&gt;
&gt; RiakResult response =
&gt; client.Put(value, new RiakPutOptions { W = 2 });\*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt; \*\* \*\*
&gt;
&gt; But I would like to create the bucket and set properties on the bucket
&gt; before I put things into the bucket. Like:\*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt; \*\* \*\*
&gt;
&gt; RiakResult riakBuckpropertiesResult =
&gt; client.GetBucketProperties("products", true);\*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt; if (riakBuckpropertiesResult.IsSuccess)\*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt; {\*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt; riakBuckpropertiesResult.Value\*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt; .SetNVal(4)\*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt; .SetAllowMultiple(true)\*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt; .SetWVal("all")\*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt; .SetRVal("quorum");\*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt; client.SetBucketProperties("products",
&gt; riakBuckpropertiesResult.Value);\*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt; }\*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt; \*\* \*\*
&gt;
&gt; The problem is that the properties that I want to set are for a bucket
&gt; that doesn’t exist yet so the “get” fails.\*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

