---
title: "Re: Riak errors after node left the cluster"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-11-06T13:06:54-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15121"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15117"
author_name: "Oleksiy Krivoshey"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-11-06T13:06:54-08:00
---


Just got a new problem with Riak. Recently a hard drive has failed on one
of Riak nodes so I had to shut it down. I'm running 4 nodes now and each 10
minutes all of them start to fail with 'Error: {error,mailbox\_overload}'
until restarted. Can anyone from Basho please suggest a solution/ fix for
this? My whole cluster is unusable with just 1 node failed.

On 5 November 2014 00:11, Oleksiy Krivoshey  wrote:

&gt; There were also errors during initial handoff, here is a full console.log
&gt; for that day: https://www.dropbox.com/s/o7zop181pvpxoa5/console.log?dl=0
&gt;
&gt; I actually replaced two nodes that day. First one went smoothly as it
&gt; should. The second one resulted in the situation above. I replaced the
&gt; first one and then the second after few hours.
&gt;
&gt; On 4 November 2014 20:44, Oleksiy Krivoshey  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I'm running a 5 node cluster (Riak 2.0.0) and I had to replace hardware
&gt;&gt; on one of the servers. So I did a 'cluster leave', waited till the node
&gt;&gt; exited, checked the ring status and members status, all was ok, with no
&gt;&gt; pending changes. Then later after about 5 minutes every client connection
&gt;&gt; to any of the 4 remaining nodes started to fail with
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; [Error: {error,mailbox\_overload}
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I have restarted one node after another and the error has gone. However I
&gt;&gt; was still experiencing connectivity issues (timeouts) and riak error log is
&gt;&gt; full of various errors even after I joined the 5th node back.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Error are like:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Failed to merge
&gt;&gt; {["/var/lib/riak/bitcask\_expire\_1d/685078892498860742907977265335757665463718379520/1.bitcask.data"]
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; gen\_fsm &lt;0.818.0&gt; in state active terminated with reason: bad record
&gt;&gt; state in riak\_kv\_vnode:set\_vnode\_forwarding/2 line 991
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; @riak\_pipe\_vnode:new\_worker:826 Pipe worker startup failed:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; msg,7,[{file,"gen\_fsm.erl"},{line,505}]},{proc\_lib,init\_p\_do\_apply,3,[{file,"proc\_lib.erl"},{line,239}]}]
&gt;&gt; 2014-11-04 16:07:57.124 [error]
&gt;&gt; &lt;0.11128.0&gt;@riak\_core\_handoff\_sender:start\_fold:279 hinted\_handoff transfer
&gt;&gt; of riak\_kv\_vnode from 'riak@10.0.1.1'
&gt;&gt; 353957427791078050502454920423474793822921162752 to 'riak@
&gt;&gt; 10.0.1.5' 353957427791078050502454920423474793822921162752 failed because
&gt;&gt; of error:undef
&gt;&gt; [{riak\_core\_format,human\_size\_fmt,["~.2f",588],[]},{riak\_core\_handoff\_sender,start\_fold,5,[{file,"src/riak\_core\_han
&gt;&gt; doff\_sender.erl"},{line,246}]}]
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; The full error log file is available here:
&gt;&gt; https://www.dropbox.com/s/3b8x3nqyego7lw3/error.log?dl=0
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; There was no significant load on Riak so I would like to understand what
&gt;&gt; caused so many errors?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; Oleksiy
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Oleksiy Krivoshey
&gt;



-- 
Oleksiy Krivoshey
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

