---
title: "Re: Riak Search Pagination"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-12-21T20:12:55-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16882"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16881"
author_name: "Zeeshan Lakhani"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-12-21T20:12:55-08:00
---


Yes. Score is the default ordering. For "ties," insertion order is the 
default. That order could change based on which node is replicated to first and 
the different coverage plan may showcase that. 

Zeeshan Lakhani
programmer | 
software engineer at @basho | 
org. member/founder of @papers\_we\_love |
twitter =&gt; @zeeshanlakhani

&gt; On Dec 21, 2015, at 22:34, Jorge Garrido  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; Great!! But can you explain why this issue? 
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On Monday, December 21, 2015, Zeeshan Lakhani  wrote:
&gt;&gt; Best to provide a specific sort ordering on a field if you can.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Zeeshan Lakhani
&gt;&gt; programmer |
&gt;&gt; software engineer at @basho |
&gt;&gt; org. member/founder of @papers\_we\_love |
&gt;&gt; twitter =&gt; @zeeshanlakhani
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; &gt; On Dec 21, 2015, at 21:54, Garrido  wrote:
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; No, we don’t provide a sort on the query, let us check and we can tell you 
&gt;&gt; &gt; if its the same score, but, in case of search returns the same score, 
&gt;&gt; &gt; which one will be the solution?
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; On Dec 21, 2015, at 8:21 PM, Zeeshan Lakhani  wrote:
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; The coverage plan can change per query. Are you providing a sort on the 
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; query? If not or if by score, does each item return the same score?
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; Zeeshan Lakhani
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; programmer |
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; software engineer at @basho |
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; org. member/founder of @papers\_we\_love |
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; twitter =&gt; @zeeshanlakhani
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; On Dec 21, 2015, at 18:34, Garrido  wrote:
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; Hello,
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; Recently we migrated our Riak nodes to another network, so we backup the 
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; data and then regenerate the ring, all is well, but there is a strange 
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; behaviour in a riak search, for example if we execute a query using the 
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; riak\_erlang\_client, returns the objects in the order:
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; A, B, C
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; And then if we execute again the same query the result is:
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; B, A, C,
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; So, in other order, do you know what is causing this?, before to change 
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; our riak ring to another network, it was working perfectly.
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; Thank you
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; &gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

