---
title: "Re: Query on Riak Search in a cluster of 3 nodes behind ELB is giving	different result everytime"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-04-01T01:11:26-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15943"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15941"
author_name: "Vitaliy E"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-04-01T01:11:26-07:00
---


So the problem I've described may be what you are experiencing (3
replicas). Do you have any indexing errors in the logs? What is "riak-admin
member-status" showing on each node?

On Wed, Apr 1, 2015 at 11:02 AM, Santi Kumar  wrote:

&gt; n\_val is 3 for us and we have 3 nodes
&gt; On Apr 1, 2015 1:21 PM, "Vitaliy E" &lt;13vitam...@gmail.com&gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hello everyone,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I've just joined the list, and am a bit late to the party. Sorry about
&gt;&gt; that. Thought I would contribute an answer anyway.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Santi, what is you n\_val?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I observed the behavior you are describing on Riak 2.0.0 with n\_val=3 in
&gt;&gt; two cases:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; 1. One of the nodes was not part of the cluster although the cluster was
&gt;&gt; thinking it was. Don't ask me how that happened. Obviously, when a request
&gt;&gt; hit that node part of the entries could not be found there.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; 2. Look for indexing errors in Solr console and Riak logs. Each Riak node
&gt;&gt; has its own Solr "repository", so if an entry fails to be indexed on any of
&gt;&gt; them, search results will be inconsistent depending on which set of nodes
&gt;&gt; returns it. Let's say you have replicas on nodes A, B, and C. Entry X
&gt;&gt; failed to be indexed on A, entry Y failed to be indexed on A and B, and
&gt;&gt; entry Z was indexed OK on all nodes. Then you may get {X,Y,Z}, {X,Z}, or
&gt;&gt; {Z} as your search results.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; In our case the indexing failures were caused by disk/filesystem errors.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Regards,
&gt;&gt; Vitaly
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

