---
title: "Re: vm.args change for 15% to 80% improvement in leveldb"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-08-14T08:27:52-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12030"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12029"
author_name: "Sam Elliott"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-08-14T08:27:52-07:00
---


Where \*both\* TotalSchedulers and OnlineSchedulers should be set to 50% of your 
Logical cores.

Sam

On 14 Aug 2013, at 4:14PM, Sean Cribbs  wrote:

&gt; http://www.erlang.org/doc/man/erl.html#+S
&gt; 
&gt; +S TotalSchedulers:OnlineSchedulers
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Wed, Aug 14, 2013 at 9:57 AM, Guido Medina  
&gt; wrote:
&gt; Hi Matthew,
&gt; 
&gt; It is a bit confusing, cause let's say "+S C:T" is defined as:
&gt; 
&gt; C = Physical cores?
&gt; T = Total threads or total - physical cores?
&gt; 
&gt; Is it a sum of or the physical cores and total of threads? That's the 
&gt; confusing part, let's say you have a server with 8 physical cores with no 
&gt; hyper threading, so total threads is also 8, would that still be "+S 4:4", 
&gt; "+S 8:8" or "+S 8:0"
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; 
&gt; Guido.
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On 14/08/13 15:41, Matthew Von-Maszewski wrote:
&gt; "threads=8" is the key phrase … +S 4:4
&gt; 
&gt; On Aug 14, 2013, at 10:04 AM, Guido Medina  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; For the following information should it be +S 4:4 or +S 4:8?
&gt; 
&gt; root@somehost# lshw -C processor
&gt; \*-cpu
&gt; description: CPU
&gt; product: Intel(R) Core(TM) i7 CPU 930 @ 2.80GHz
&gt; vendor: Intel Corp.
&gt; physical id: 4
&gt; bus info: cpu@0
&gt; version: Intel(R) Core(TM) i7 CPU 930 @ 2.80GHz
&gt; serial: To Be Filled By O.E.M.
&gt; slot: CPU 1
&gt; size: 1600MHz
&gt; capacity: 1600MHz
&gt; width: 64 bits
&gt; clock: 133MHz
&gt; capabilities: x86-64 fpu fpu\_exception wp vme de pse tsc msr pae mce 
&gt; cx8 apic sep mtrr pge mca cmov pat pse36 clflush dts acpi mmx fxsr sse sse2 
&gt; ss ht tm pbe syscall nx rdtscp constant\_tsc arch\_perfmon pebs bts rep\_good 
&gt; nopl xtopology nonstop\_tsc aperfmperf pni dtes64 monitor ds\_cpl vmx est tm2 
&gt; ssse3 cx16 xtpr pdcm sse4\_1 sse4\_2 popcnt lahf\_lm ida dtherm tpr\_shadow vnmi 
&gt; flexpriority ept vpid cpufreq
&gt; configuration: cores=4 enabledcores=4 threads=8
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; 
&gt; Guido.
&gt; 
&gt; On 14/08/13 01:38, Matthew Von-Maszewski wrote:
&gt; \*\* The following is copied from Basho's leveldb wiki page:
&gt; 
&gt; https://github.com/basho/leveldb/wiki/Riak-tuning-1
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; Summary:
&gt; 
&gt; leveldb has a higher read and write throughput in Riak if the Erlang 
&gt; scheduler count is limited to half the number of CPU cores. Tests have 
&gt; demonstrated improvements of 15% to 80% greater throughput.
&gt; 
&gt; The scheduler limit is set in the vm.args file:
&gt; 
&gt; +S x:x
&gt; 
&gt; where "x" is the number of schedulers Erlang may use. Erlang's default value 
&gt; of "x" is the total number of CPUs in the system. For Riak installations 
&gt; using leveldb, the recommendation is to set "x" to half the number of CPUs. 
&gt; Virtual environments are not yet tested.
&gt; 
&gt; Example: for 24 CPU system
&gt; 
&gt; +S 12:12
&gt; 
&gt; Discussion:
&gt; 
&gt; We have tested a limited number of CPU configurations and customer loads. In 
&gt; all cases, there is a performance increase when the +S option is added to the 
&gt; vm.args file to reduce the number of Erlang schedulers. The working 
&gt; hypothesis is that the Erlang schedulers perform enough "busy wait" work that 
&gt; they always create context switch away from leveldb when leveldb is actually 
&gt; the only system task with real work.
&gt; 
&gt; The tests included 8 CPU (no hyper threading, physical cores only) and 24 CPU 
&gt; (12 physical cores with hyper threading) systems. All were 64bit Intel 
&gt; platforms. Generalized findings:
&gt; 
&gt; • servers running higher number of vnodes (64) had larger performance 
&gt; gains than those with fewer (8)
&gt; • servers running SSD arrays had larger performance gains than those 
&gt; running SATA arrays
&gt; • Get and Write operations showed performance gains, 2i query 
&gt; operations (leveldb iterators) were unchanged
&gt; • Not recommended for servers with less than 8 CPUs (go no lower than 
&gt; +S 4:4)
&gt; 
&gt; Performance improvements were as high as 80% over extended, heavily loaded 
&gt; intervals on servers with SSD arrays and 64 vnodes. No test resulted in worse 
&gt; performance due to the addition of +S x:x.
&gt; 
&gt; The +S x:x configuration change does not have to be implemented 
&gt; simultaneously to an entire Riak cluster. The change may be applied to a 
&gt; single server for verification. Steps: update the vm.args file, then restart 
&gt; the Riak node. Erlang command line changes to schedules were ineffective.
&gt; 
&gt; This configuration change has been running in at least one large, 
&gt; multi-datacenter production environment for several months.
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; -- 
&gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt; Software Engineer
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; http://basho.com/
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

