---
title: "Re: Mapred unable to find keys that use bucket types"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-02-05T12:47:40-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15646"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15644"
author_name: "Mikhail Pustovalov"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-02-05T12:47:40-08:00
---


Hi Chris,

Thank you for the prompt reply.
Although that is exactly what I do. I've noticed that bucket can now be
both binary or a tuple {binary, binary} where the first element is bucket
type and the second is bucket. And it works for put/get operations and for
mapred\_bucket which traverses the whole bucket. But what I am trying to
achieve is traverse only specified keys and that doesn't seem to work for
mapred queiries. Here are the commands that work:
simple get:
riakc\_pb\_socket:get(Pid,{&lt;&lt;"bucket\_type"&gt;&gt;,&lt;&lt;"bucket"&gt;&gt;},&lt;&gt;).
mapred over the whole bucket:
riakc\_pb\_socket:mapred\_bucket(Pid, {&lt;&lt;"bucket\_type"&gt;&gt;,&lt;&lt;"bucket"&gt;&gt;}, [{map,
{modfun, rc\_mapred, map\_kv\_pairs}, none, true}]).
but this one fails with the result {ok,[{0,[{error,notfound}]}]}:
riakc\_pb\_socket:mapred(Pid, [{{&lt;&lt;"bucket\_type"&gt;&gt;,&lt;&lt;"bucket"&gt;&gt;},&lt;&gt;}],[{map,
{modfun, rc\_mapred, map\_kv\_pairs}, none, true}]).

If you can run a mapred query over specified keys could you please show me
an example?

Thanks,
Michael


On Thu Feb 05 2015 at 10:16:32 PM Christopher Meiklejohn &lt;
cmeiklej...@basho.com&gt; wrote:

&gt;
&gt; &gt; On Feb 5, 2015, at 10:55 AM, Mikhail Pustovalov 
&gt; wrote:
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Hello,
&gt; &gt; I am using MapReduce just as a way to get multiple keys in one query (I
&gt; couldn't find a better way). My code used to work with Riak v.1.4 but now
&gt; when I try to run it against the latest version (2.0.4) mapred queries
&gt; return {error, notfound} for each key supplied.
&gt; &gt; I have created a bucket type, put my keys inside a bucket in that type.
&gt; Simple 'put' and 'get' work fine. This line returns requested object:
&gt; &gt; riakc\_pb\_socket:get(Pid,{&lt;&lt;"avs\_n2"&gt;&gt;,&lt;&lt;"avatars"&gt;&gt;},&lt;&lt;
&gt; 145,3,100,41,46&gt;&gt;).
&gt; &gt; This line though:
&gt; &gt; riakc\_pb\_socket:mapred(Pid, 
&gt; &gt; [{{&lt;&lt;"avs\_n2"&gt;&gt;,&lt;&lt;"avatars"&gt;&gt;},&lt;&lt;145,3,100,41,46&gt;&gt;}],[{map,
&gt; {modfun, rc\_mapred, map\_kv\_pairs}, none, true}]).
&gt; &gt; returns this:
&gt; &gt; {ok,[{0,[{error,notfound}]}]}
&gt; &gt; Seems like mapred functions are unable to query using bucket types.
&gt; Without bucket types everything still works fine.
&gt; &gt; Also mapred\_bucket over a whole bucket also works fine.
&gt; &gt; Please, advise. Is it possible to use mapred with newly introduced
&gt; bucket types when I want only specific keys and not the full scan of a
&gt; bucket?
&gt;
&gt; Hi Mikhail,
&gt;
&gt; You’ll need to specify the bucket type as part of the bucket name when
&gt; performing the map reduce, for example, for inputs for the “maps” bucket
&gt; type and “users” bucket, you should use {&lt;&lt;“maps”&gt;&gt;, &lt;&lt;“users”&gt;&gt;} as the
&gt; bucket name for riakc\_pb\_socket.
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; - Chris
&gt;
&gt; Christopher Meiklejohn
&gt; Senior Software Engineer
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; cmeiklej...@basho.com
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

