---
title: "Re: @RiakIndex annotated field is not stored as part of value"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-01-27T05:46:37-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15601"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15598"
author_name: "Santi Kumar"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-01-27T05:46:37-08:00
---


HI Chris
I cant send the code publicly so I tested with couple more examples.If I
annotate the field with "secretKey" or "authSecret", then those field
values are becoming null in the object.

If I change the key with "indexKey" or some thing then it's part of the
object state. I have modified accordingly. Is there any restrictions on the
naming of the 2i index?

Thanks
Santi

On Mon, Jan 26, 2015 at 10:29 PM, Christopher Meiklejohn &lt;
cmeiklej...@basho.com&gt; wrote:

&gt;
&gt; On Jan 26, 2015, at 5:48 PM, Santi Kumar  wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Yes. I'm using POJO and annotating one of the field with RiakIndex. When
&gt; I'm reading the object with the key, as the tag field is not part of the
&gt; object, while writing I dont have the tag value while writing the object.
&gt;
&gt; Class Foo {
&gt;
&gt; private String fooId;
&gt;
&gt; @RiakIndex(name="barid")
&gt;
&gt; private String barid;
&gt;
&gt; .....
&gt;
&gt; }
&gt;
&gt; When I'm storing the object, I set the barid for the object and storing
&gt; the object. Annotation is taking care of tagging the object with barid.
&gt;
&gt; When I query the object with barId, I have the barId value so I'm setting
&gt; barId to object and writing it. But If I lookup the object with fooId, as
&gt; barId value is not part of the object I cant tag the object with barid. SO
&gt; when I'm writing the object I'm losing the association .
&gt;
&gt; So Is there any thing I'm missing to make it part of the object state.
&gt; That way as you said, When I read-modify-write, the tag value exist all the
&gt; time.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Hi Santi,
&gt;
&gt; I’m having trouble following your exact issue. Is it possible for you to
&gt; share the problematic code so we can try to reproduce it here?
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; Chris
&gt;
&gt; Christopher Meiklejohn
&gt; Senior Software Engineer
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; cmeiklej...@basho.com
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

