---
title: "Re: Using Corrugated Iron without a connection pool"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-03-18T16:40:20-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10469"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg10466"
author_name: "OJ Reeves"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-03-18T16:40:20-07:00
---


Hello Mark,

There is currently no implementation in CI which allows this. Having said
that, it's something that we have pondered ourselves. It might just be high
time to get that sorted out.

I have created a github issue[1] so we can talk about it. May I request
that we move the discussion there? I am very keen to help get a solution
together for you.

Thanks for the contact!
OJ

[1]: https://github.com/DistributedNonsense/CorrugatedIron/issues/111

On Tue, Mar 19, 2013 at 7:22 AM, Mark Morga  wrote:

&gt; TL;DR version: is there a way to use Corrugated Iron making connections on
&gt; the fly rather than a fixed connection pool?
&gt;
&gt; Explanation:
&gt;
&gt; We are using Corrugated Iron on several (5) components that talk to Riak.
&gt; We want to be able to independently scale the number of instances of these
&gt; components live in production and we're having problems understanding how
&gt; best to do this with the connection pool assigned in CI.
&gt;
&gt; Our Riak instance (currently 5 nodes) is load balanced behind an HAProxy
&gt; instance and we have been using the RiakExternalLoadBalancer class pointed
&gt; to this load balancer to instantiate our RiakClient. HAProxy is configured
&gt; at the moment to permit up to 250 connections to each Riak node (we've
&gt; played with this a bit).
&gt;
&gt; My concern is that as we pop additional nodes running one of our
&gt; components, each of those will want to consume \_n\_ connections out of the
&gt; available 250 and eventually we are going to run out.
&gt;
&gt; Looking through the code a bit today, I don't see how to use the Riak
&gt; connections outside of either RiakExternalLoadBalancer or RiakCluster.
&gt; Since RiakNode and RiakConnection are internal classes I don't see an easy
&gt; way to do this. Ideas?
&gt;
&gt; Thanks in advance!
&gt;
&gt; Mark Morga
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;



-- 

OJ Reeves
+61 431 952 586
http://buffered.io/
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

