---
title: "RE: Riak-CS Not Inheriting Permissions?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-10-14T11:46:52-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15040"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15036"
author_name: "Valenti, Anthony"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-10-14T11:46:52-07:00
---


The application (VB.Net) appears to only be executing a CopyFromLocal method to 
upload the file and doing nothing with ACLs. So, should the application be 
Getting the ACL for the target folder and then applying the ACL to the file 
that was uploaded? 

-----Original Message-----
From: Luke Bakken [mailto:lbak...@basho.com] 
Sent: Tuesday, October 14, 2014 11:52 AM
To: Valenti, Anthony
Cc: riak-users@lists.basho.com
Subject: Re: Riak-CS Not Inheriting Permissions?

Hi Anthony,

When you put files, are you also including any ACL information?

http://docs.basho.com/riakcs/latest/cookbooks/Access-Control-Lists/

--
Luke Bakken
Engineer / CSE
lbak...@basho.com


On Tue, Oct 14, 2014 at 8:07 AM, Valenti, Anthony  
wrote:
&gt; Does anyone have an idea why this is working this way or if it is 
&gt; functioning as designed? Am I expecting it to do something that it 
&gt; doesn’t do? If so, then how can I get it do what I am expecting.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; We are running Riak-CS on version 1.4.8.
&gt;
&gt; Here is the situation. We have a bucket that is owned by Acct1 that 
&gt; has folders in it. Acct2 has been granted all permissions to the 
&gt; bucket and all sub-folders.
&gt;
&gt; Acct2 puts a file in one of the subfolders, but Acct1 has no 
&gt; permissions at all for the file.
&gt;
&gt; Acct1 puts a file in the same folder and Acct2 automatically has all 
&gt; of the same permissions to the file as it has to the parent folder.
&gt;
&gt; Why is it working this way and how do I get it to inherit permissions 
&gt; automatically?
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt;
&gt; Anthony
&gt;
&gt; \*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Inmar Confidentiality Note: This e-mail and any attachments are 
&gt; confidential and intended to be viewed and used solely by the intended 
&gt; recipient. If you are not the intended recipient, be aware that any 
&gt; disclosure, dissemination, distribution, copying or use of this e-mail 
&gt; or any attachment is prohibited. If you received this e-mail in 
&gt; error, please notify us immediately by returning it to the sender and 
&gt; delete this copy and all attachments from your system and destroy any 
&gt; printed copies. Thank you for your cooperation.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Notice of Protected Rights: The removal of any copyright, trademark, 
&gt; or proprietary legend contained in this e-mail or any attachment is 
&gt; prohibited without the express, written permission of Inmar, Inc. 
&gt; Furthermore, the intended recipient must maintain all copyright 
&gt; notices, trademarks, and proprietary legends within this e-mail and 
&gt; any attachments in their original form and location if the e-mail or 
&gt; any attachments are reproduced, printed or distributed.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

