---
title: "Re: VS Sample help"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-08-20T16:47:38-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12102"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12077"
author_name: "OJ Reeves"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-08-20T16:47:38-07:00
---


Brad,

You can start by adjusting the read/write timeouts[1] to see if that helps.
However I don't think this is really going to help you in the long run
because the issue is that you're not able to connect.

Are you able to establish a simple connection to the PBC port from the same
machine? Try using netcat or even something like telnet to connect remotely
to the PBC port to see if a connection actually succeeds outside of CI. To
be 100% sure it'd be worth throwing nmap at it to see if the port is open
from the outside. Also, can you confirm that the ports that you've
specified in your CI config are the same as those specified in the
app.config of your Riak node? My guess is that the port is, for some
reason, firewalled off or that the ports are incorrect.

OJ


[1]:
https://github.com/DistributedNonsense/CorrugatedIron/blob/master/CorrugatedIron/Config/RiakNodeConfiguration.cs#L73




On Tue, Aug 20, 2013 at 1:05 AM,  wrote:

&gt; Hello I just got 2 VMs’ setup and can access via http but cannot get the
&gt; samples to work.
&gt;
&gt; My riak app.config -name is set as riak@192.168.0.71 and .73 respectfully
&gt; and running the Sample proj just takes for ever to ping i.e. a few
&gt; minutes. Eventually it fails at the assert.
&gt;
&gt; My VS app.config in vs is as follows:
&gt;
&gt;  defaultRetryCount="3"&gt;
&gt;
&gt; 
&gt;
&gt; 
&gt;
&gt; 
&gt;
&gt; 
&gt;
&gt; 
&gt;
&gt; Does anyone see why I am failing to connect?
&gt; I ask is there a way to get the ping to fail sooner?
&gt;
&gt; Regards,
&gt; Brad Patterson
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;


-- 

OJ Reeves
+61 431 952 586
http://buffered.io/
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

