---
title: "Re: Decipher Solr error messages"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2017-07-01T07:46:04-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg18307"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg18306"
author_name: "Fred Dushin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2017-07-01T07:46:04-07:00
---


You might be able to query which keys are giving you grief via a query over the 
`\_yz\_err` field, as it looks like this field will be populated in this scenario.

export HOST=my-host
export PORT=8098
export INDEX=foo
curl 
"http://${HOST}:${PORT}/search/query/${INDEX}?q=\_yz\_err:\*&wt=json&indent=true"

And of course you should be able to use the full query language of Solr to 
return the result set you desire (bucket type, bucket name, key, etc).

-Fred

&gt; On Jul 1, 2017, at 10:30 AM, Fred Dushin  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; My guess is that you have data that is either not UTF-8 encoded or is failing 
&gt; to decode into a JSON payload (peeking quickly at the mochi\_json code, there 
&gt; are a lot of case statements, as you would expect in a parser).
&gt; 
&gt; There is a call to error logging on line 165 in Riak 2.2.2, so I assume you 
&gt; are on that version of Riak?
&gt; 
&gt; -Fred
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On Jun 28, 2017, at 9:11 AM, Mark Richard Thomas  
&gt;&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Hello
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; I'm seeing a number of Solr related issues in my error.log:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 2017-06-28 06:02:58.520 [error] &lt;0.2094.0&gt;@yz\_doc:extract\_fields:165 An 
&gt;&gt; exception occurred extracting fields from value with reason 
&gt;&gt; {case\_clause,&lt;&lt;200,162,171,163,243,217,229,228,195,79,125,154,98,147,163,118,199,52,170,154,85,31,29,208&gt;&gt;}.
&gt;&gt; Value: 
&gt;&gt; &lt;&lt;200,162,171,163,243,217,229,228,195,79,125,154,98,147,163,118,199,52,170,154,85,31,29,208&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; 2017-06-28 06:02:58.520 [error] 
&gt;&gt; &lt;0.2094.0&gt;@yz\_solrq\_helper:single\_op\_batch:342 Updating a single Solr 
&gt;&gt; operation failed for index &lt;&lt;"disqual"&gt;&gt; with bad request.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 2017-06-28 06:03:34.191 [error] &lt;0.2103.0&gt;@yz\_doc:extract\_fields:165 An 
&gt;&gt; exception occurred extracting fields from value with reason invalid\_utf8. 
&gt;&gt; Value: &lt;&lt;"{ \"company\"...........
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; I think these fall under 2 categories: an issue with the 'disqual' index and 
&gt;&gt; 'invalid\_utf8'.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Any ideas on identifying where the issues occur?
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Thanks
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Mark
&gt;&gt; Equifax Limited is registered in England with Registered No. 2425920. 
&gt;&gt; Registered Office: Capital House, 25 Chapel Street, London NW1 5DS. Equifax 
&gt;&gt; Limited is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
&gt;&gt; Equifax Touchstone Limited is registered in Scotland with Registered No. 
&gt;&gt; SC113401. Registered Office: Exchange Tower,19 Canning Street, Edinburgh, 
&gt;&gt; EH3 8EH.
&gt;&gt; Equifax Commercial Services Limited is registered in the Republic of Ireland 
&gt;&gt; with Registered No. 215393. Registered Office: IDA Business & Technology 
&gt;&gt; Park, Rosslare Road, Drinagh, Wexford.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; This message contains information from Equifax which may be confidential and 
&gt;&gt; privileged. If you are not an intended recipient, please refrain from any 
&gt;&gt; disclosure, copying, distribution or use of this information and note that 
&gt;&gt; such actions are prohibited. If you have received this transmission in 
&gt;&gt; error, please notify by e-mail 
&gt;&gt; postmas...@equifax.com.
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

