---
title: "RE: CorrugatedIron - incorrect version of protobuf-net?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-06-22T01:19:26-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14341"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14340"
author_name: "OJ Reeves"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-06-22T01:19:26-07:00
---


No problem mate. Best of luck.

OJ
 On 22 Jun 2014 17:51, "Bond, Dave A"  wrote:

&gt; Thanks for the rapid response, OJ. That's fixed my problem!
&gt;
&gt; Cheers,
&gt;
&gt; Dave
&gt;
&gt; ------------------------------
&gt; \*From:\* OJ Reeves [o...@buffered.io]
&gt; \*Sent:\* 22 June 2014 02:53
&gt; \*To:\* Bond, Dave A; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; \*Subject:\* Re: CorrugatedIron - incorrect version of protobuf-net?
&gt;
&gt; Your error message shows that CI expects a a minimum version of
&gt; 2.0.0.640 for protobuf and you’re using version 2.0.0.602.
&gt;
&gt; The short answer is to update protobuf-net to a version greater than or
&gt; equal to the required one. See here:
&gt; http://www.nuget.org/packages/protobuf-net/ it’s up to version 2.0.0.668.
&gt; Get latest on this library and it should be fine.
&gt;
&gt; The reason there’s a minimum version number specified is to make sure
&gt; that CI doesn’t break with out of date libs. We’d rather have compiler
&gt; errors than runtime errors or data corruption issues.
&gt;
&gt; Cheers.
&gt; OJ
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; OJ Reeves | @TheColonial  | +61 431 952
&gt; 586 | http://buffered.io/
&gt; PGP 4096R/1FAA5749 | 4EAE 350E 13FE 7584 FFC8 B97D 49EE E751 1FAA 5749
&gt;
&gt; On 21 June 2014 at 23:50:56, Bond, Dave A (d.a.b...@hw.ac.uk) wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Hello, everyone.
&gt;
&gt; Pay attention, there's lots of version numbers below :-)
&gt;
&gt; Riak: 1.4.8-0-g7545390
&gt; Hosting OS: CentOS 6.5
&gt; IDE: Monodevelop 4.2.3
&gt; CorrugatedIron: 1.4.2 (obtained through the Monodevelop Nuget plugin)
&gt;
&gt; I've written a very simple C# console program to test CorrugatedIron -&gt;
&gt; Riak connectivity but when I try to build it I get an error message
&gt; indicating that the version of protobuf-net being referenced by
&gt; CorrugatedIron (2.0.0.640) is higher than the version that was imported
&gt; with CorrugatedIron (2.0.0.602). Has anyone else come across this
&gt; problem? Any ideas how to fix it?
&gt;
&gt; Full error message: Error CS1705: Assembly `CorrugatedIron,
&gt; Version=1.4.2.0, Culture=neutral, PublicKeyToken=fb1ec7de601674df'
&gt; references `protobuf-net, Version=2.0.0.640, Culture=neutral,
&gt; PublicKeyToken=257b51d87d2e4d67' which has a higher version number than
&gt; imported assembly `protobuf-net, Version=2.0.0.602, Culture=neutral,
&gt; PublicKeyToken=257b51d87d2e4d67' (CS1705) (CI\_Riak\_test)
&gt;
&gt; Sorry if this is a noob question but I'm still finding my way with a)
&gt; CentOS, b) Riak, c) Monodevelop, d) C# ... so I need all the help I can get!
&gt;
&gt; Cheers,
&gt;
&gt; Dave
&gt;
&gt; ------------------------------
&gt;
&gt; Sunday Times Scottish University of the Year 2011-2013
&gt; Top in the UK for student experience
&gt; Fourth university in the UK and top in Scotland (National Student Survey
&gt; 2012)
&gt;
&gt; We invite research leaders and ambitious early career researchers to join
&gt; us in leading and driving research in key inter-disciplinary themes. Please
&gt; see www.hw.ac.uk/researchleaders for further information and how to apply.
&gt;
&gt; Heriot-Watt University is a Scottish charity registered under charity
&gt; number SC000278.
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; ------------------------------
&gt;
&gt; Sunday Times Scottish University of the Year 2011-2013
&gt; Top in the UK for student experience
&gt; Fourth university in the UK and top in Scotland (National Student Survey
&gt; 2012)
&gt;
&gt; We invite research leaders and ambitious early career researchers to join
&gt; us in leading and driving research in key inter-disciplinary themes. Please
&gt; see www.hw.ac.uk/researchleaders for further information and how to
&gt; apply.
&gt;
&gt; Heriot-Watt University is a Scottish charity registered under charity
&gt; number SC000278.
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

