---
title: "Re: map CRDT performance/limits"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-11-14T11:45:14-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15174"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15173"
author_name: "Sean Cribbs"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-11-14T11:45:14-08:00
---


Hi Mark,

Currently maps are contained in a single key. The same warnings we give for
value sizes in regular KV apply; however, the map has additional contained
metadata that will give an approximately linear overhead (per-embedded
type) to the object.

If you can constrain the various domains of your incoming data so as to box
it in something small enough (~1MB or less), by all means use a map, but it
is not a general solution for time-series data.

On Fri, Nov 14, 2014 at 1:34 PM, Mark Rechler  wrote:

&gt; Hi Everyone,
&gt;
&gt; I'm curious if anyone has had experience using maps as containers for
&gt; a large amount of data.
&gt;
&gt; Are there any inherent size limits for maps? Could you put sets
&gt; equivalent to several gigabytes of data into one map? I'd also be
&gt; curious as to the performance impact of deleting said map. Would it be
&gt; the same impact as scanning keys in a bucket and deleting
&gt; sequentially?
&gt;
&gt; I'm exploring using a map to organize data within a time bucket if you
&gt; will to get around the leveldb back-end not having TTL support.
&gt;
&gt; Thanks in advance!
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Mark Rechler
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;



-- 
Sean Cribbs 
Sr. Software Engineer
Basho Technologies, Inc.
http://basho.com/
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

