---
title: "Re: Maps with multiple buckets"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-12-17T18:56:27-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13279"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13276"
author_name: "Bryce"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-12-17T18:56:27-08:00
---


Upon thinking about things a little more, if anyone has information on 
how to do time series with counters(current, 5 seconds ago, 10 seconds 
ago, and 30 seconds ago), that would be a great thing to have for the 
project I'm doing.


Thanks again for the help!

Bryce


On 12/17/13 17:09, Jeremiah Peschka wrote:


The allowable inputs to an MR map phase include a list of bucket key 
pairs. If you know your keys in advance the problem is solved.


Can you describe a bit more about how you're using MR? Is this an ad 
hoc query? A predictable report? Time based?


---
sent from a tiny portion of the hive mind...
in this case, a phone

On Dec 17, 2013 4:51 PM, "Bryce Verdier" &gt; wrote:


 Hi All,

 I have a question concerning map-reduce. I have two buckets with
 counters enabled that have similar keys to track two different
 metrics. At the moment in order to combine these two datasets
 together I have to make 2 different map-reduce queries and combine
 the data within the client. I'm wondering if/how it might be
 possible to combine both of these queries into one. I'm thinking
 that Links are a possibility, but I'm not sure if it would or how
 viable a solution it would be.

 Any and all advice is welcomed.

 Thanks in advance,
 Bryce

 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
 riak-users mailing list
 riak-users@lists.basho.com 
 http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com



\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

