---
title: "calling erlang module,function from python-riak client in mapreduce"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-05-26T05:18:13-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14265"
author_name: "Gopi Krishna"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-05-26T05:18:13-07:00
---


Hi all,

I've been doing the thing get the map phase work in query.map() in
python-riak client.

I have written a function in erlang.

funs(Obj,\_,\_) -&gt; [riak\_object:get\_value(Obj)].

I have saved it in a file called \*maps.erl\*

I have compiled the \*maps.erl\* to get the \*maps.beam \*file to give the path
of the beam files under tha

\*app.config.\*
 I have given path like as metnioned in the riak documents.

Now i want to get the values out from the map phase udner the python-riak
client by sending erlang module and map function to the query.map() phase.I
have given like :


\*query.map(['maps','funs'])\*
\*query.run() \*is giving me error like below, please tell me where i have
done or what is the correct to way to implement it.



Traceback (most recent call last):
 File "", line 1, in 
 File
"/usr/lib/python2.6/site-packages/riak-1.5.2-py2.6.egg/riak/mapreduce.py",
line 234, in run
 result = t.mapred(self.\_inputs, query, timeout)
 File
"/usr/lib/python2.6/site-packages/riak-1.5.2-py2.6.egg/riak/transports/http.py",
line 322, in mapred
 (repr(response[0]), repr(response[1])))
Exception: Error running MapReduce operation. Headers: {'date': 'Mon, 26
May 2014 11:24:04 GMT', 'content-length': '1121', 'content-type':
'application/json'
, 'http\_code': 500, 'server': 'MochiWeb/1.1 WebMachine/1.10.0 (never breaks
eye contact)'} Body:
'{"phase":0,"error":"undef","input":"{ok,{r\_object,&lt;&lt;\\"tst\
\"&gt;&gt;,&lt;&lt;\\"test5\\"&gt;&gt;,[{r\_content,{dict,3,16,16,8,80,48,{[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[]},{{[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[[&lt;&lt;\\"X-Riak-VTag\\
"&gt;&gt;,50,53,75,69,55,80,113,109,65,69,117,106,109,109,99,65,72,101,75,82,115,86]],[[&lt;&lt;\\"index\\"&gt;&gt;]],[],[[&lt;&lt;\\"X-Riak-Last-Modified\\"&gt;&gt;|{1400,340359,663135}]
],[],[]}}},&lt;&lt;\\"6\\"&gt;&gt;}],[{&lt;&lt;197,82,177,11,83,115,139,10&gt;&gt;,{1,63567559559}}],{dict,1,16,16,8,80,48,{[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[]},{{[],[],
[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],...}}},...},...}","type":"error","stack":"[{maps,funs,[{r\_object,&lt;&lt;\\"tst\\"&gt;&gt;,&lt;&lt;\\"test5\\"&gt;&gt;,[{r\_content,{dict,3,16,16,8,80,48,{
[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[]},{{[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[[&lt;&lt;\\"X-Riak-VTag\\"&gt;&gt;,50,53,75,69,55,80,113,109,65,69,117,106,109,109,99,6
5,72,101,75,82,115,86]],[[&lt;&lt;\\"index\\"&gt;&gt;]],[],[[&lt;&lt;\\"X-Riak-Last-Modified\\"&gt;&gt;|{1400,340359,663135}]],[],[]}}},&lt;&lt;\\"6\\"&gt;&gt;}],[{&lt;&lt;197,82,177,11,83,115,139,10
&gt;&gt;,{1,63567559559}}],{dict,1,16,16,8,80,48,{[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[]},{{[],[],[],[],[],[],[],...}}},...},...],...},...]"}'

-- 

Thanks & Regards,
J.Gopi Krishna
+91-8341452934,
www.lintelindia.com
Lintel Technologies Pvt. LTD,Hyderabad.

This message contains confidential information and is intended for
recipient. If you are not the intended recipient you are notified that
disclosing, copying, distributing or taking any action in reliance on the
contents of this information is strictly prohibited. E-mail transmission
cannot be guaranteed to be secure or error-free as information could be
intercepted, corrupted, lost, destroyed, arrive late or incomplete, or
contain viruses. The sender therefore does not accept liability for any
errors or omissions in the contents of this message, which arise as a
result of e-mail transmission. If verification is required please request a
hard-copy version.
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

