---
title: "Re: Is Riak dead?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2017-07-14T15:31:49-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg18363"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg18353"
author_name: "Russell Brown"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2017-07-14T15:31:49-07:00
---



On 14 Jul 2017, at 23:28, Dave King  wrote:

&gt; No, but I can read.

I read it too. I’m not sure what your point is. A day may come when the name 
has to change?

&gt; 
&gt; - Peace
&gt; Dave
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Fri, Jul 14, 2017 at 4:27 PM, Russell Brown  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; On 14 Jul 2017, at 23:26, Dave King  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; &gt; 6. Trademarks. This License does not grant permission to use the trade 
&gt; &gt; names, trademarks, service marks, or product names of the Licensor, except 
&gt; &gt; as required for reasonable and customary use in describing the origin of 
&gt; &gt; the Work and reproducing the content of the NOTICE file.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; So At minimum I read that as there would need to be a new product name, and 
&gt; &gt; the docs for that product could say formerly known as Riak.
&gt; 
&gt; You are lawyer?
&gt; 
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; - Peace
&gt; &gt; Dave
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; On Fri, Jul 14, 2017 at 4:22 PM, Russell Brown  
&gt; &gt; wrote:
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; On 14 Jul 2017, at 23:17, Dave King  wrote:
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; Looks like Basho has the trademark on Riak.
&gt; &gt; &gt; http://www.trademarkia.com/riak-77954950.html
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; They sure do. And if you look at the Apache2 license you’ll see that it 
&gt; &gt; grants use of the name to identify the source.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Look, I’m not a lawyer, and I’m guessing you’re not a lawyer. What 
&gt; &gt; difference does the name or trademark make? There are a bunch of active 
&gt; &gt; users of Riak, some of whom have made it clear they plan to continue using 
&gt; &gt; it. Dance on Basho’s grave all you want, but Riak isn’t dead yet.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; - Peace
&gt; &gt; &gt; Dave
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; On Fri, Jul 14, 2017 at 4:08 PM, Alexander Sicular  
&gt; &gt; &gt; wrote:
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; On Jul 14, 2017, at 11:32, Russell Brown  wrote:
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; What do you mean “encumbered”? Riak is the name of an Apache2 licensed 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; open source database, so it can continue to be used to describe that 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; apache 2 licensed database, please don’t spread FUD.
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; You willing to invest time in a project that could be legally encumbered 
&gt; &gt; &gt; at some point in the future because lawyers? You willing to put that 
&gt; &gt; &gt; beyond the clown fiesta that is Basho? I don't think so.
&gt; &gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; 
&gt; 


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

