---
title: "Re: Unsolved problem using Riak TS Java Client"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2017-04-13T01:15:40-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg18141"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg18136"
author_name: "Allexandre Sampaio"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2017-04-13T01:15:40-07:00
---


Hey Alex, thank you for helping.
So, answering you:

1. I'm setting up the connections as recomended in the client's example
provided by the Docs page, here
. If you prefer, you
can see my application coding (in progress) on its repository

in
Github.
2. Yes, I've already used the riak\_shell and the HTTP interface, both work
fine...
3. No, let's say I'm in a hurry and couldn't code the logging module of my
application until now.

Thank you again!

Att.,

\*Allexandre Sampaio\*
\*Sistemas de Informação - IFBA\*
\*Vitória da Conquista - BA\*
\*(77) 99964 3521\*

2017-04-12 11:02 GMT-03:00 Alex Moore :

&gt; Hi Allexandre,
&gt;
&gt; A few things to start:
&gt;
&gt; 1. Could you share how you are setting up the connections in the Java
&gt; client?
&gt; 2. Are you able to connect to your Riak TS cluster using the HTTP
&gt; interface, or riak\_shell ?
&gt; 3. Are there any log files from your java application?
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; Alex Moore
&gt; Team Lead, Clients Team
&gt;
&gt; On Wed, Apr 12, 2017 at 8:11 AM, Allexandre Sampaio &lt;
&gt; allexandre...@gmail.com&gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi, I'm new to Riak and I'm using the TS version to perform some tests in
&gt;&gt; my Java application, running on an Ubuntu 16.04 server, for a college
&gt;&gt; project.
&gt;&gt; The library I'm using is riak-client-2.1.1, with all of its dependencies.
&gt;&gt; But, when I try to connect to the DB to save data, the connection doesn't
&gt;&gt; happen, and after a few minutes, the java proccess is closed.
&gt;&gt; What could it be? Maybe a problem with the DB settings?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Att.,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \*Allexandre Sampaio\*
&gt;&gt; \*Vitória da Conquista - BA, Brazil\*
&gt;&gt; \*+55 (77) 99964 3521 &lt;+55%2077%2099964-3521&gt;\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

