---
title: "Re: Tag 2.0.0rc1 ??"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-07-15T12:52:40-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14497"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14496"
author_name: "Dave Martorana"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-07-15T12:52:40-07:00
---


Jared,

I'm pretty excited about this. I've been playing with 2.0 for a long time,
and am looking forward to finally getting off of our MySQL solution!

I didn't mean to rush you guys or anything. The last thing I should \*ever\*
intentionally point out in anyone else is pushing back a deadline to get in
that extra bit of polish. I'm the worst offender (and TBH, I prefer the
polish!). I just wasn't sure if I had missed something. Hope I didn't spoil
the surprise.

Thanks again for everything!

Dave


On Mon, Jul 14, 2014 at 4:40 PM, Jared Morrow  wrote:

&gt; Dave,
&gt;
&gt; Yes, I tagged RC1 on Friday. The plan for us is to do some finishing work
&gt; on docs, some last rounds of tests to be done, and then put it out to the
&gt; public sometime soon. I've learned to not give firm dates at this point,
&gt; but I'd personally be very disappointed if something wasn't in your hands
&gt; by the end of this week. There will always be more work to do, but we plan
&gt; to get it out to the public ASAP.
&gt;
&gt; To bring everyone in the loop, once we hit RC stage, we treat it like a
&gt; true release candidate, keeping all changes out unless they fix a major
&gt; bug. Usually the limits us to dataloss bugs, but recently we allowed for
&gt; some performance changes to go into RC's as well. Sometimes it is hard to
&gt; get an exact test of large-cluster performance when things are still
&gt; changing before RC. With that in mind, using RC you can expect no API and
&gt; command-line changes before final release. Right now even though Riak
&gt; server has reached RC, not all of our clients are done quite yet as they
&gt; have to lag behind Riak proper a bit.
&gt;
&gt; It has taken a long time for us to hit RC, and trust us that no one feels
&gt; this pain more than us. We thank all our users for being patient with us
&gt; through this extremely long 2.0 cycle, we have put a lot of features into
&gt; 2.0 and that stretched us more thin that we initially hoped. Even so, we
&gt; didn't skimp on testing, so that is why RC is hitting now instead of a few
&gt; months ago.
&gt;
&gt; Thanks again for the support from all of our users.
&gt; -Jared
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Mon, Jul 14, 2014 at 1:46 PM, Dave Martorana  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi!
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I've been kind of holding off development for a bit while the Basho team
&gt;&gt; puts the polish on 2.0 - and then I saw a tag - 2.0.0rc1 - in Github from 3
&gt;&gt; days ago.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Has riak 2.0 quietly moved in to RC mode? And if so, are we well in to
&gt;&gt; feature freeze now?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Is it OK that I'm posting this to the mailing list?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks!
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Dave
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

