---
title: "Re: Best way to query geo hashed data?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-05-19T12:07:53-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11107"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg11105"
author_name: "Eric Redmond"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-05-19T12:07:53-07:00
---


Rather than geohashing, you might consider Yokozuna. It has built in geo 
searches.

Eric

On May 19, 2013, at 11:47 AM, Ryan Chazen  wrote:

&gt; Hi
&gt; 
&gt; I'm looking at Riak as a solution for handling this type of data:
&gt; 
&gt; A map is divided into sectors, and on the map there are many objects with 
&gt; each object being in 1 or more sectors. (An object can be in more than 1 
&gt; sector if it is larger than the sector). Objects can move, so object 323 
&gt; could move from sector 5 to sector 10.
&gt; 
&gt; Queries come in of the form : Retrieve all objects in a list of sectors. eg 
&gt; Sectors[55, 378, 272, ...] - maximum ~50 sectors per request.
&gt; 
&gt; From looking through Riak docs, 2i indexes would be perfect but they only 
&gt; seem to allow range queries, and not a list of ids.
&gt; Multiple range queries could be used, but I'm guessing this will be heavy on 
&gt; the servers?
&gt; 
&gt; Map-Reduce looked like a good fit, but the warning on the page states "When 
&gt; you want to query data of an entire bucket. MapReduce uses a list of keys, 
&gt; which can place a lot of demand on the cluster." - so I guess MapReduce is 
&gt; out?
&gt; 
&gt; The fulltext search seems possible, but I'm a bit confused if it will work 
&gt; for this.
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; Any recommendations, or is Riak not a good fit for this type of data?
&gt; 
&gt; Regards,
&gt; Ryan
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

