---
title: "Re: cannot connect to DB"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-01-12T06:28:24-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15475"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15470"
author_name: "Alexander Sicular"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-01-12T06:28:24-08:00
---


The quick install tutorial installs all nodes on one physical machine and
uses the localhost ip address, 127.0.0.1. That is why Riak is not
accessible from another computer. Localhost is not routable.

Yes, you will need to change the ip address in all the config files (the 5
nodes) from 127.0.0.1 to your routable address.

In my opInion, if you want to simply develop against the api, just use one
node and don't set up the cluster. It's just a pain to manage all the ip
addresses, especially on a single machine where you need to change default
ports.

-Alexander

On Monday, January 12, 2015, Ildar Alishev  wrote:

&gt; Thank you, will try.
&gt; what if i have created clusters from this tutorial
&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/quickstart/
&gt;
&gt; i should change everywhere???
&gt;
&gt; Also maybe it is easier to delete all nodes that i have created before?
&gt; How can i delete them?
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Thank you!
&gt;
&gt; 12 янв. 2015 г., в 16:37, Alexander Sicular  &gt; написал(а):
&gt;
&gt; Hi Ildar,
&gt;
&gt; Please take a look at the docs,
&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/ops/building/basic-cluster-setup/ , you
&gt; need to set up your IP address most likely.
&gt;
&gt; -Alexander
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; @siculars
&gt; http://siculars.posthaven.com
&gt;
&gt; Sent from my iRotaryPhone
&gt;
&gt; On Jan 12, 2015, at 06:56, Ildar Alishev  &gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Hello. Have started RIAK in UBUNTU64 14.04, trying to connect from another
&gt; computer inside local network, but cannot connect. Maybe i should set up
&gt; ipadress somewhere?
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

