---
title: "Re: 2i at large scale?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-09-25T14:38:23-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12397"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12396"
author_name: "Wagner Camarao"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-09-25T14:38:23-07:00
---


What size page are you using (ie. how many results per query)?

A: 10


When you said the results would sometimes take three minutes, is that per
page, or to paginate through all of the results?

A: I don't observe any difference by paging the first or any next page.
That wait time is only when I start riak and run the first request
(whatever that request is, paging, key lookup, or just getting a reference
to a bucket).


Are you observing CPU and memory utilization while these stalls happen?

A: Yes, I see both CPU and memory but nothing above 50% of use. If I do
bucket.keys (yes, not recommended) then it's the only way I get my CPU
usage close to 100%. I don't do that as part of my benchmarking. I did it a
couple times just to see it happening, and actually none of these times
took riak down.


Do you have swap disabled?

A: Nope. Why you would recommend doing so? Could there be any downsides?


On Wed, Sep 25, 2013 at 2:18 PM, Reid Draper  wrote:

&gt;
&gt; On Sep 25, 2013, at 3:39 PM, Wagner Camarao  wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Reid,
&gt; Thanks for bringing that up and yes I'm using paginated 2i.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \* What size page are you using (ie. how many results per query)?
&gt; \* When you said the results would sometimes take three minutes, is that
&gt; per page, or to paginate through all of the results?
&gt; \* Are you observing CPU and memory utilization while these stalls happen?
&gt; \* Do you have swap disabled?
&gt;
&gt; Reid
&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

