---
title: "Re: Docker support"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2016-07-15T09:25:59-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg17539"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg17534"
author_name: "Adam Winter"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2016-07-15T09:25:59-07:00
---


Jon,

Is there anyone I can talk to to confirm that the licensed commercial version 
with a support contract is or is not supported running in a Docker container in 
production environments, assuming the technical challenges you describe can be 
addressed?


Adam Winter
614-446-9033
Delivery Lead
Pillar Technology Group, LLC
awin...@pillartechnology.com 
Interact with me on:
LinkedIn  | Twitter 





&gt; On Jul 13, 2016, at 4:08 PM, Jon Brisbin  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; I guess to answer at least one part of your question on whether it's 
&gt; "encouraged" or not: it depends on what you want to do with it.
&gt; 
&gt; I can't speak for the support side of things but on the engineering side 
&gt; anyway we're using Docker containers fairly happily to do things like create 
&gt; ephemeral clusters for doing adhoc testing. It makes for a very nice way to 
&gt; run a small cluster on a laptop or on a Mesos slave in a Jenkins build with 
&gt; very similar expectations (I won't say identical because networking issues 
&gt; can rear their head). I created images based on the latest TS and KV 
&gt; packages. There are docs in the READMEs:
&gt; 
&gt; https://hub.docker.com/r/basho/riak-ts/ 
&gt; 
&gt; https://hub.docker.com/r/basho/riak-kv/ 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; Running a production Riak cluster, however, raises some concerns that I'm 
&gt; pretty sure no one really has a good handle on. Networking issues can become 
&gt; difficult unless you use something like Weave. Volumes could also be an 
&gt; issue. docker-compose and Docker Swarm should help with some of this but we 
&gt; don't have any docs that demonstrate how to use them.
&gt; 
&gt; I'd say we also don't have a comprehensive picture of performance 
&gt; characteristics of running a Dockerized Riak cluster since there's several 
&gt; moving parts to consider. We need to investigate bridged vs host networking 
&gt; mode and using different volume drivers, etc... There is some valid concern 
&gt; that the key reasons you'd want to use Riak to begin with are somewhat 
&gt; ameliorated by a Docker container's ephemeral nature; e.g. it's really easy 
&gt; to kill off containers which might lead to accidental data loss.
&gt; 
&gt; jb
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Wed, Jul 13, 2016 at 1:47 PM Adam Winter  &gt; wrote:
&gt; Is a Docker-based deployment of Riak officially supported by Basho and 
&gt; encouraged?
&gt; 
&gt; I see articles of how to configure Riak to run in Docker images, but no 
&gt; explicit mention of it within the list of supported platforms.
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; Adam Winter
&gt; 614-446-9033
&gt; Delivery Lead
&gt; Pillar Technology Group, LLC
&gt; awin...@pillartechnology.com 
&gt; Interact with me on:
&gt; LinkedIn  | Twitter 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com 
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com 
&gt; 

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

