---
title: "Re: Ansible galaxy roles only support three-year-old Ubuntu 12.04"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-05-28T19:03:08-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16164"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16163"
author_name: "Toby Corkindale"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-05-28T19:03:08-07:00
---


Hi guys,
I've sent three small pull requests through, addressing different issues.
I've only been testing my changes on Ubuntu 12.04 and 14.04 (the two most
recent LTS versions) but have left some notes referring to points that are
worth you checking on Red Hat.

There's still some big issues with the role failing if certain variables
haven't been defined -- but I'm not sure if that's because you're in the
middle of refactoring the way that stuff works, or some other
in-development plan you haven't finished yet.

There are also issues where buckets and security settings will fail on
everything after the first run, because they already exist. ie. The
commands aren't idempotent.

Cheers
Toby

On Thu, 28 May 2015 at 15:41 Toby Corkindale  wrote:

&gt; Hi guys,
&gt; I'm afraid I'm already wearing too many hats to pick up the role of
&gt; maintainer of the Ansible-riak repository. However, definitely happy to
&gt; help out a little.
&gt; I'll take a look at the dev-2.x branch and see what I have to change to
&gt; make it run on Ubuntu 14.04.
&gt;
&gt; Cheers,
&gt; Toby
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; On 27 May 2015 at 18:34, Matthew Brender  wrote:
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; Hey Toby,
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; While I'm not thrilled our role is out of date, I'm excited to hear
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; you care. We're actively looking for a maintainer of the Ansible Riak
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; repo [1]. A quick review of the branching shows that it's a little
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; wild west in there.
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; If you're game to step up as the maintainer, I'd love to sync up with
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; you. We have some great resources (people and existing code) and we're
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; in need of someone who wants to curate them all.
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; [1] https://github.com/basho-labs/ansible-riak
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; Matt Brender | Developer Advocacy Lead
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; Basho Technologies
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; t: @mjbrender
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; On Wed, May 27, 2015 at 5:24 AM, Christopher Mancini &lt;
&gt;&gt; cmanc...@basho.com&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; Hi Toby,
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; I am actually working on a rewrite of the Galaxy role that we used to
&gt;&gt; have
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; up there to be simpler and support all of the 2.x features of Riak.
&gt;&gt; You can
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; access it here:
&gt;&gt; https://github.com/basho-labs/ansible-riak/tree/dev-2.x
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; I would greatly appreciate any feedback, suggestions as well as any
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; contributions you may have from your testing on Ubuntu / Debian,
&gt;&gt; since I am
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; using it with CentOS7 and may not have time to test it with Ubuntu
&gt;&gt; for a
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; little while still.
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; Chris
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

