---
title: "Re: Riak-CS-Control"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-06-30T23:28:28-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11358"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg11356"
author_name: "Christopher Meiklejohn"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-06-30T23:28:28-07:00
---


Hi Guy, 

Here is a good video introduction to configuring Riak CS Control:

http://basho.com/getting-started-with-riak-cs-control/

Let me know if you run into any specific issues and I'm happy to help. I'm 
also lurking in the #riak room on Freenode (nick: cmeiklejohn) if you need 
further help (any of us should be able to!)

- Chris 

-- 
Christopher Meiklejohn
Software Engineer
Basho Technologies, Inc.



On Monday, July 1, 2013 at 2:14 AM, Guy Morton wrote:

&gt; Also, I just found this - riak-cs-control... None of the install/config 
&gt; documents I saw previously mentioned it, or that it should be configured, or 
&gt; how. It seems to control the web interface referred to in my last email...
&gt; 
&gt; Where is the most up-to-date info about Riak CS and how to set it up? I am 
&gt; trying to set it up on Debian squeeze and I'm still floundering. I seem very 
&gt; close to having it working, but not quite. It's a bit frustrating! Is it just 
&gt; me, or is it complex to get working?
&gt; 
&gt; --
&gt; Guy Morton
&gt; Web Development Manager
&gt; Brüel & Kjær EMS
&gt; This e-mail is confidential and may be read, copied and used only by the 
&gt; intended recipient. If you have received it in error, please contact the 
&gt; sender immediately by return e-mail. Please then delete the e-mail and do not 
&gt; disclose its contents to any other person.
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com




\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

