---
title: "Re: Riak Search queries"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-11-24T02:35:40-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15223"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15211"
author_name: "Jason Ryan"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-11-24T02:35:40-08:00
---


Hi Eric,

I don't get multiple siblings on a Riak GET for the key.

My buckets currently have allow\_mult: false and last\_write\_wins: true
The n\_val is the default 3

When I search, an example return is as follows, I can see the \_yz\_id has a
unique number on the end alright though?

Thanks for the help!

Jason

{ "responseHeader": { "status": 0, "QTime": 6, "params": { "sort":
"RequestTimestamp
desc", "indent": "true", "q": "\_yz\_rk:20141124091329-GET-200", "\_":
"1416824998178", "wt": "json" } }, "response": { "numFound": 3, "start": 0,
"docs": [ { "CredentialType": "Live", "MerchantSiteId":
"754712a0-8df0-4931-bf65-a37600e203b7", "ResponseStatus": "OK", "
ResponseCode": "200", "ResponseMessage": "{  }", "ResponseTimestamp":
"2014-11-24T09:13:29.111Z", "RequestMessage": "null", "RequestTimestamp":
"2014-11-24T09:13:27.803Z", "RequestUri":
"/api/v2.0/decision/e12f7e34-cdd0-4138-b0e4-88d906aba391", "
RequestMessageType": "application/json", "RequestMethodType": "GET", "\_yz\_id":
"1\*Trunk\*ApiEvents\*20141124091329-GET-200\*34", "\_yz\_rk":
"20141124091329-GET-200", "\_yz\_rt": "Trunk", "\_yz\_rb": "ApiEvents" }, { "
CredentialType": "Live", "MerchantSiteId":
"754712a0-8df0-4931-bf65-a37600e203b7", "ResponseStatus": "OK", "
ResponseCode": "200", "ResponseMessage": "{  }", "ResponseTimestamp":
"2014-11-24T09:13:29.111Z", "RequestMessage": "null", "RequestTimestamp":
"2014-11-24T09:13:27.803Z", "RequestUri":
"/api/v2.0/decision/e12f7e34-cdd0-4138-b0e4-88d906aba391", "
RequestMessageType": "application/json", "RequestMethodType": "GET", "\_yz\_id":
"1\*Trunk\*ApiEvents\*20141124091329-GET-200\*35", "\_yz\_rk":
"20141124091329-GET-200", "\_yz\_rt": "Trunk", "\_yz\_rb": "ApiEvents" }, { "
CredentialType": "Live", "MerchantSiteId":
"754712a0-8df0-4931-bf65-a37600e203b7", "ResponseStatus": "OK", "
ResponseCode": "200", "ResponseMessage": "{  }", "ResponseTimestamp":
"2014-11-24T09:13:29.111Z", "RequestMessage": "null", "RequestTimestamp":
"2014-11-24T09:13:27.803Z", "RequestUri":
"/api/v2.0/decision/e12f7e34-cdd0-4138-b0e4-88d906aba391", "
RequestMessageType": "application/json", "RequestMethodType": "GET", "\_yz\_id":
"1\*Trunk\*ApiEvents\*20141124091329-GET-200\*36", "\_yz\_rk":
"20141124091329-GET-200", "\_yz\_rt": "Trunk", "\_yz\_rb": "ApiEvents" } ] } }




[image: photo]
\*Jason Ryan\*
VP Engineering

Trustev
Real Time, Online Identity Verification

email: jason.r...@trustev.com
skype: jason\_j\_ryan
web: www.trustev.com

Trustev Ltd, 2100 Cork Airport Business Park, Cork, Ireland.

On 22 November 2014 at 13:57, Eric Redmond  wrote:

&gt; You can check if your object has siblings by performing a key get, and see
&gt; if two values return. If not, then it may be the index. Can you paste the
&gt; response where you get two values?
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; Eric
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Nov 13, 2014, at 9:46 AM, Jason Ryan  wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Thanks Eric - I don't see the \_yz\_vtag returned in the search result set -
&gt; so not sure how to tell that?
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; [image: photo]
&gt; \*Jason Ryan\*
&gt; VP Engineering
&gt;
&gt; Trustev
&gt; Real Time, Online Identity Verification
&gt;
&gt; email: jason.r...@trustev.com
&gt; skype: jason\_j\_ryan
&gt; web: www.trustev.com
&gt;
&gt; Trustev Ltd, 2100 Cork Airport Business Park, Cork, Ireland.
&gt;
&gt; On 12 November 2014 17:53, Eric Redmond  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Nov 11, 2014, at 3:55 AM, Jason Ryan  wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi all,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I have some quick (hopefully!) questions around Riak search.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; 1. I'm getting multiple documents returned in the search results for a
&gt;&gt; query - which I assume is based on the n\_val of my bucket as I tried to
&gt;&gt; change the search index to have a n\_val of 1 but got an error that it
&gt;&gt; needed to match the bucket n\_val - is this expected behaviour, i.e. will
&gt;&gt; the search return multiples based from the n\_val, and I need to code for
&gt;&gt; that?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; You should only get multiple results if your values have siblings. You
&gt;&gt; can tell if they're siblings because the duplicates will have different
&gt;&gt; \_yz\_vtags.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; 2. What is best practice if we required to change an index (e.g. adding a
&gt;&gt; new indexed field) and wanted to re-generate the index for a particular
&gt;&gt; bucket?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Currently, that requires you rewriting your dataset again. However, there
&gt;&gt; is a PR in the works to allow incremental schema changes, as well as
&gt;&gt; allowing AAE to automatically update indexed documented based on schema
&gt;&gt; changes: https://github.com/basho/yokozuna/pull/427
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks!
&gt;&gt; Jason
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; This message is for the named person's use only. If you received this
&gt;&gt; message in error, please immediately delete it and all copies and notify
&gt;&gt; the sender. You must not, directly or indirectly, use, disclose,
&gt;&gt; distribute, print, or copy any part of this message if you are not the
&gt;&gt; intended recipient. Any views expressed in this message are those of the
&gt;&gt; individual sender and not Trustev Ltd. Trustev is registered in Ireland
&gt;&gt; No. 516425 and trades from 2100 Cork Airport Business Park, Cork, Ireland.
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt; This message is for the named person's use only. If you received this
&gt; message in error, please immediately delete it and all copies and notify
&gt; the sender. You must not, directly or indirectly, use, disclose,
&gt; distribute, print, or copy any part of this message if you are not the
&gt; intended recipient. Any views expressed in this message are those of the
&gt; individual sender and not Trustev Ltd. Trustev is registered in Ireland
&gt; No. 516425 and trades from 2100 Cork Airport Business Park, Cork, Ireland.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;

-- 


This message is for the named person's use only. If you received this 
message in error, please immediately delete it and all copies and notify 
the sender. You must not, directly or indirectly, use, disclose, 
distribute, print, or copy any part of this message if you are not the 
intended recipient. Any views expressed in this message are those of the 
individual sender and not Trustev Ltd. Trustev is registered in Ireland No. 
516425 and trades from 2100 Cork Airport Business Park, Cork, Ireland.
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

