---
title: "Re: LevelDB performance (block size question)"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-08-13T12:12:59-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12008"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12007"
author_name: "Matthew Von-Maszewski"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-08-13T12:12:59-07:00
---


Istvan,

"block\_size" is not a "size", it is a threshold. Data is never split across 
blocks. A single block contains one or more key/value pairs. leveldb starts a 
new block only when the total size of all key/values in the current block 
exceed the threshold. 

Your must set block\_size to a multiple of your typical key/value size if you 
desire multiple per block.

Plus side: block\_size is computed before compression. So, you might get nice 
reduction in total disk size by having multiple, mutually compressible items in 
a block. leveldb iterators / Riak 2i might give you slightly better 
performance with bigger blocks because there are fewer reads if the keys needed 
are in the same block (or fewer blocks).

Negative side: the entire block, not single key/value pairs, go into the block 
cache uncompressed (cache\_size). You can quickly overwhelm the block cache 
with lots of large blocks. Also random reads / Gets have to read, decompress, 
and CRC check the entire block. Therefore it costs you more disk transfer and 
decompression/CRC CPU time to read random values from bigger blocks.


I suggest you experiment with your dataset and usage patterns. Be sure to 
build big sample datasets before starting to measure and/or restart Riak 
between building and measuring. These are ways to make sure you see the impact 
of random reads.

Matthew


On Aug 13, 2013, at 2:51 PM, István  wrote:

&gt; Hi guys,
&gt; 
&gt; I am setting up a new Riak cluster and I was wondering if there is any 
&gt; drawback of increasing the LevelDB blocksize from 4K to 64K. The reason is 
&gt; that we have all of the values way bigger than 4K and I guess from the 
&gt; performance point of view it would make sense to increase the block size. The 
&gt; tests are still running to confirm this theory but I wanted to clarify that 
&gt; there is no big red flag of doing that from the Riak side. I found the 
&gt; following discussion about changing block size:
&gt; 
&gt; https://groups.google.com/forum/#!msg/leveldb/2JJ4smpSC6Q/1Z7aDSeHiRkJ
&gt; 
&gt; Is that a good idea to experiment with this in Riak to achieve better 
&gt; performance?
&gt; 
&gt; Thank you in advance,
&gt; Istvan
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; -- 
&gt; the sun shines for all
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

