---
title: "Re: Performance Tuning in OmniOS"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-01-21T09:34:34-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13427"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13426"
author_name: "Hari John Kuriakose"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-01-21T09:34:34-08:00
---


Hello,

I am using standard EBS devices, with a zpool in an instance comprising of
five 40GB volumes.
Each of the Riak instance is of m1.large type.

I have made the following changes in zfs properties:

# My reason: the default sst block size for leveldb is 4k.
zfs set recordsize=4k tank/riak
# My reason: by default, leveldb verifies checksums automatically.
zfs set checksum=off tank/riak
zfs set atime=off tank/riak
zfs set snapdir=visible tank/riak

And I did the following with help from Basho AWS tuning docs:

projadd -c "riak" -K "process.max-file-descriptor=(basic,65536,deny)"
user.riak
bash -c "echo 'set rlim\_fd\_max=65536' &gt;&gt; /etc/system"
bash -c "echo 'set rlim\_fd\_cur=65536' &gt;&gt; /etc/system"
ndd -set /dev/tcp tcp\_conn\_req\_max\_q0 40000
ndd -set /dev/tcp tcp\_conn\_req\_max\_q 4000
ndd -set /dev/tcp tcp\_tstamp\_always 0
ndd -set /dev/tcp tcp\_sack\_permitted 2
ndd -set /dev/tcp tcp\_wscale\_always 1
ndd -set /dev/tcp tcp\_time\_wait\_interval 60000
ndd -set /dev/tcp tcp\_keepalive\_interval 120000
ndd -set /dev/tcp tcp\_xmit\_hiwat 2097152
ndd -set /dev/tcp tcp\_recv\_hiwat 2097152
ndd -set /dev/tcp tcp\_max\_buf 8388608

Thanks again.


On Tue, Jan 21, 2014 at 9:12 PM, Hector Castro  wrote:

&gt; Hello,
&gt;
&gt; Can you please clarify what type of disk you are using within AWS?
&gt; EBS, EBS with PIOPS, instance storage? In addition, maybe some details
&gt; on volume sizes and instance types.
&gt;
&gt; These details may help someone attempting to answer your question.
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Hector
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Tue, Jan 21, 2014 at 8:11 AM, Hari John Kuriakose 
&gt; wrote:
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; I am running LevelDB on ZFS in Solaris (OmniOS specifically) in Amazon
&gt; AWS.
&gt; &gt; The iops is very very low. There is no significant progress with tuning
&gt; too.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Why I chose ZFS is that since LevelDB requires the node to be stopped
&gt; before
&gt; &gt; taking a backup, I needed a filesystem with snapshot ability. And the
&gt; most
&gt; &gt; favourable Amazon community AMI seemed to be using OmniOS (fork of
&gt; Solaris).
&gt; &gt; Everything is fine, except the performance.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; I did all the AWS tuning proposed by Basho but still Basho Bench gave
&gt; twice
&gt; &gt; iops on Ubuntu as compared to OmniOS, under same conditions. Also, I am
&gt; &gt; using riak-js client library, and its a 5 node Riak cluster with 8GB ram
&gt; &gt; each.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Could not yet figure out what is really causing the congestion in OmniOS.
&gt; &gt; Any pointers will be really helpful.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Thanks and regards,
&gt; &gt; Hari John Kuriakose.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

