---
title: "Re: object sizes"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-04-16T13:05:00-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16013"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16003"
author_name: "Matthew Brender"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-04-16T13:05:00-07:00
---


Hi Alex,

That is an interesting question! I haven't seen a request like that in
our backlog, so feel free to open a new issue [1]. I'm curious: why
not use something like sys.getsizeof [2]?

[1] https://github.com/basho/riak-python-client/issues
[2] 
http://stackoverflow.com/questions/449560/how-do-i-determine-the-size-of-an-object-in-python

Matt Brender | Developer Advocacy Lead
Basho Technologies
t: @mjbrender


On Mon, Apr 13, 2015 at 7:26 AM, Alex De la rosa
 wrote:
&gt; Hi Bryan,
&gt;
&gt; Thanks for your answer; i don't know how to code in erlang, so all my system
&gt; relies on Python.
&gt;
&gt; Following Ciprian's curl suggestion, I tried to compare it with this python
&gt; code during the weekend:
&gt;
&gt; Map object:
&gt; curl -I
&gt;&gt; 1058 bytes
&gt; print sys.getsizeof(obj.value)
&gt;&gt; 3352 bytes
&gt;
&gt; Standard object:
&gt; curl -I
&gt;&gt; 9718 bytes
&gt; print sys.getsizeof(obj.encoded\_data)
&gt;&gt; 9755 bytes
&gt;
&gt; The standard object seems pretty accurate in both approaches even the image
&gt; binary data was only 5kbs (I assume some overhead here)
&gt;
&gt; The map object is about 3x the difference between curl and getting the
&gt; object via Python.
&gt;
&gt; Not so sure if this is a realistic way to measure their growth (moreover
&gt; because the objects i would need this monitorization are Maps, not unaltered
&gt; binary data that I can know the size before storing it).
&gt;
&gt; Would it be possible in some way that the Python get() function would return
&gt; something like "obj.content-lenght" returning the size is currently taking?
&gt; that would be a pretty nice feature.
&gt;
&gt; Thanks!
&gt; Alex
&gt;
&gt; On Mon, Apr 13, 2015 at 12:47 PM, bryan hunt  wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Alex,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Maps and Sets are stored just like a regular Riak object, but using a
&gt;&gt; particular data structure and object serialization format. As you have
&gt;&gt; observed, there is an overhead, and you want to monitor the growth of these
&gt;&gt; data structures.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; It is possible to write a MapReduce map function (in Erlang) which
&gt;&gt; retrieves a provided object by type/bucket/id and returns the size of it's
&gt;&gt; data. Would such a thing be of use?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; It would not be hard to write such a module, and I might even have some
&gt;&gt; code for doing so if you are interested. There are also reasonably good
&gt;&gt; examples in our documentation -
&gt;&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/dev/advanced/mapreduce
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I haven't looked at the Python PB API in a while, but I'm reasonably
&gt;&gt; certain it supports the invocation of MapReduce jobs.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Bryan
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On 10 Apr 2015, at 13:51, Alex De la rosa  wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Also, I forgot, i'm most interested on bucket\_types instead of simple riak
&gt;&gt; buckets. Being able how my mutable data inside a MAP/SET has grown.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; For a traditional standard bucket I can calculate the size of what I'm
&gt;&gt; sending before, so Riak won't get data bigger than 1MB. Problem arise in
&gt;&gt; MAPS/SETS that can grown.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt; Alex
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Fri, Apr 10, 2015 at 2:47 PM, Alex De la rosa 
&gt;&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Well... using the HTTP Rest API would make no sense when using the PB
&gt;&gt;&gt; API... would be extremely costly to maintain, also it may include some extra
&gt;&gt;&gt; bytes on the transport.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; I would be interested on being able to know the size via Python itself
&gt;&gt;&gt; using the PB API as I'm doing.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Thanks anyway,
&gt;&gt;&gt; Alex
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; On Fri, Apr 10, 2015 at 1:58 PM, Ciprian Manea  wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Hi Alex,
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; You can always query the size of a riak object using `curl` and the REST
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; API:
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; i.e. curl -I :8098/buckets/test/keys/demo
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Regards,
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Ciprian
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; On Thu, Apr 9, 2015 at 12:11 PM, Alex De la rosa
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;  wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Hi there,
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; I'm using the python client (by the way).
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; obj = RIAK.bucket('my\_bucket').get('my\_key')
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Is there any way to know the actual size of an object stored in Riak?
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; to make sure something mutable (like a set) didn't added up to more than 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 1MB
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; in storage size.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Thanks!
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Alex
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
ᐧ

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

