---
title: "Re: Corrupted data using Riak Python Client on Win7 64 bit"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-11-08T15:44:35-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12910"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12909"
author_name: "John Daily"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-11-08T15:44:35-08:00
---


(And the inverse would also be interesting to know.)

-John

On Nov 8, 2013, at 6:41 PM, John Daily  wrote:

&gt; If you upload the files from Windows, and download them to the Ubuntu VM, do 
&gt; inconsistencies ever appear?
&gt; 
&gt; -John
&gt; 
&gt; On Nov 8, 2013, at 4:58 PM, Engel Sanchez  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Hello there,
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; This looks puzzling. Just from looking at the code we haven't found anything 
&gt;&gt; suspicious. Would you mind posting a pair of those files that failed to 
&gt;&gt; match somewhere so we can look at the differences?
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Thanks for reporting this.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Engel@Basho
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On Fri, Nov 8, 2013 at 2:41 PM, finkle mcgraw  wrote:
&gt;&gt; Fellow Riak users,
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; I've noticed that when I upload binary files with sizes of &gt;~1 MB to Riak 
&gt;&gt; from my Windows 7 (64 bit) machine, then read the same data back again, 
&gt;&gt; often it has a few corrupted bytes, while maintining the correct total data 
&gt;&gt; length.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Here's the Python script I use to provoke and detect the situation:
&gt;&gt; https://gist.github.com/anonymous/7376084
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Notice that I included the typical output when running the script at the 
&gt;&gt; bottom of the gist. As you can see, for that particular run, half of the 
&gt;&gt; dummy-data files were corrupted. The returned data from Riak has the exact 
&gt;&gt; same length as the source, but not the exact same content. I've only done 
&gt;&gt; brief analysis of how the corruptions appear within the files that are 
&gt;&gt; detected as corrupted, but it looks like it's typically between 1 to 5 bytes 
&gt;&gt; that are altered, evenly distributed within the file.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; I get no exceptions or warnings from the Riak Python client. Everything 
&gt;&gt; appears to be in order.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; So far I've tested this on two different windows machines against two 
&gt;&gt; different Riak clusters (a five node Amazon cluster with a loadbalancer in 
&gt;&gt; front, and a local devcluster running inside an Ubuntu 12.04 Virtual 
&gt;&gt; Machine). The problems appear in all four possible combinations.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; However, if I run the script from within an Ubuntu VM, on one of the said 
&gt;&gt; Windows machines, against any of the two Riak clusteres, the problems do NOT 
&gt;&gt; appear.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Another observation: If I generate 50 sample files, upload them, then 
&gt;&gt; repeatedly try to download them over and over again, the script will detect 
&gt;&gt; corruptions in different files on each repetition of downloading. E.g., on 
&gt;&gt; round one it might say that file 1,5, and 19 were corrupted, but on round 
&gt;&gt; two it might say 3, 8 and 19.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Here is the riak stats-view from the Amazon cluster we're running (that I 
&gt;&gt; tested the script agains):
&gt;&gt; https://gist.github.com/anonymous/7376379
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; But as I said, the corruptions appear also when working locally between a 
&gt;&gt; Win7 machine and a cluster running on a virtual Ubuntu 12.04 machine.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Here are my local package versions, running on Python 2.7.5 64 bit on 
&gt;&gt; Windows 7 64 bit:
&gt;&gt; protobuf==2.4.1
&gt;&gt; riak==2.0.1
&gt;&gt; riak-pb==1.4.1.1
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Any ideas? This seems relatively serious, unless it's some kind of brutal 
&gt;&gt; oversight on my part.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Finkle
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

