---
title: "Re: Do nodes always need to restart after backend selection?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-04-04T06:52:20-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10679"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg10672"
author_name: "Jared Morrow"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-04-04T06:52:20-07:00
---


Toby,

That particular page is talking about changing the default settings of the
backend of a bucket. In that specific case, if you want to change the
default behavior in your app.config file a restart is necessary. One
particularly important detail there is you don't need to restart \*all\*
nodes at the same time. Restarting one node at a time is sufficient and
recommended so you don't have any cluster downtime.

For setting common bucket properties, you do not need to restart the node.
 If you want to change the n\_val of a bucket for instance, you can just
change it from your client on all nodes. That page explains at the bottom
how to set them on the erlang console or curl, but most people use their
chosen client to set bucket properties before writing values. Here is an
example using the Java Client
http://docs.basho.com/java/latest/cookbooks/buckets/. In general it
doesn't matter if your client supports HTTP or protocol buffers, both API's
http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/references/apis/ support bucket property
changes.

Hope that helps,
Jared

On Wed, Apr 3, 2013 at 10:14 PM, Toby Corkindale &lt;
toby.corkind...@strategicdata.com.au&gt; wrote:

&gt; Hi,
&gt; According to the docs at the following URL, it is necessary to reboot all
&gt; Riak nodes after setting the bucket property for backend.
&gt; This seems really drastic, and we'd like to avoid having to do this!
&gt; See:
&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riak/1.\*\*3.0/tutorials/choosing-a-\*\*backend/Multi/
&gt;
&gt; I wondered if the restart of the whole cluster can be avoided? Perhaps we
&gt; could set the bucket properties prior to setting any keys within it?
&gt;
&gt; Thanks in advance,
&gt; Toby
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\*\*\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/\*\*mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_\*\*lists.basho.com
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

