---
title: "Re: riak-erlang-client"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2016-05-25T07:21:16-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg17412"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg17411"
author_name: "Nick Marino"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2016-05-25T07:21:16-07:00
---


Hi Richard,

Yes, sharing a riak-erlang-client connection process among multiple Erlang
processes should not cause any problems. The riak\_pb\_socket processes are
implemented using a gen\_server, and they use a queuing mechanism to handle
concurrent requests. If process A has sent a request and is waiting for a
response, and process B tries to send a request using the same connection
process, its request will get queued up and will be sent once process A's
request gets a reply.

Keep in mind though that this queuing mechanism could cause suboptimal
performance if you have many processes competing for use of a single
connection: users of the connection may end up spending a lot of time
blocked, waiting for requests from other processes to finish. Depending on
the circumstances, you may find that it's better to open multiple
connections than to share a single connection among multiple processes.

Nick

On Wed, May 25, 2016 at 6:28 AM, Richard Jonas &lt;
richard.jo...@erlang-solutions.com&gt; wrote:

&gt; Guys,
&gt;
&gt; most of the examples I can see that riak erlang client processes cannot be
&gt; shared with multiple processes. Is it safe if more processes use the same
&gt; riak connection? So in other words: is riak erlang client thread-safe?
&gt;
&gt; Thanks
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Richard Jonas
&gt; Erlang Solutions Hungary Kft
&gt;
&gt; Address:
&gt; Riverpark Office K.32
&gt; Közraktár street 32. 3/1.
&gt; 1093 Budapest
&gt; Hungary
&gt; Phone/fax:
&gt; +36-1-7000-654
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

