---
title: "Re: Ownership handoff timed out"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-10-27T07:08:24-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16706"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16708"
author_name: "Jon Meredith"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-10-27T07:08:24-07:00
---


Hi,

Handoff problems without obvious disk issues can be due to the database
containing large objects. Do you frequently update objects in CS, and if
so have you had garbage collection running?

The timeout is happening on the receiver side after not receiving any tcp
data for handoff\_receive\_timeout \*milli\*seconds. I know you said you
increased it, but not how high. I would bump that up to 300000 to give the
sender a chance to read larger objects off disk.

To check if the sender is transmitting, on the source node you could run
 redbug:start("riak\_core\_handoff\_sender:visit\_item", [{arity,
true},{print\_file,"/tmp/visit\_item.log"},{time, 3600000},{msgs, 1000000}]).

That file should fill fairly fast with an entry for every object the sender
tries to transmit.

There's a long shot it could be network misconfiguration. Run this from the
source node having problems

rpc:multicall(erlang, apply, [fun() -&gt; TargetNode = node(), [\_Name,Host] =
string:tokens(atom\_to\_list(TargetNode), "@"), {ok, Port} =
riak\_core\_gen\_server:call({riak\_core\_handoff\_listener, TargetNode},
handoff\_port), HandoffIP = riak\_core\_handoff\_listener:get\_handoff\_ip(),
TNHandoffIP = case HandoffIP of error -&gt; Host; {ok, "0.0.0.0"} -&gt; Host;
{ok, Other} -&gt; Other end, {node(), HandoffIP, TNHandoffIP,
inet:gethostbyname(TNHandoffIP), Port} end, []]).

and it will print out a a list of remote nodes and IP addresses (and
hopefully an empty list of failed nodes)

{[{'dev1@127.0.0.1', &lt;---- node name

 {ok,"0.0.0.0"}, &lt;---- handoff ip address configured in
app.config

 "127.0.0.1", &lt;---- hostname passed to socket open

 {ok,{hostent,"127.0.0.1",[],inet,4,[{127,0,0,1}]}}, &lt;--- DNS entry for
hostname

 10019}], &lt;---- handoff port

 []} &lt;--- empty list of errors

Good luck, Jon.

On Tue, Oct 27, 2015 at 3:55 AM Vladyslav Zakhozhai &lt;
v.zakhoz...@smartweb.com.ua&gt; wrote:

&gt; Hi,
&gt;
&gt; Jon thank you for the answer. During approval of my mail to this list I've
&gt; troubleshoot my issue more deep. And yes, your are right. Neither {error,
&gt; enotconn} nor max\_concurrency is my problem.
&gt;
&gt; I'm going to migrate my cluster entierly to eleveldb only, i.e. I need to
&gt; refuse using bitcask. I have a talk with basho support and they said that
&gt; it is tricky to tune bitcask on servers with 32 GB RAM (and I guess that it
&gt; is not tricky, but it is impossible, because bitcask loads all keys in
&gt; memory regardless of free available RAM). With LevelDB I have opportunity
&gt; to tune using RAM on servers.
&gt;
&gt; So I have 15 nodes with multibackend (bitcask for data and leveldb for
&gt; metadata). 2 additional servers are without multibackend - only with
&gt; leveldb. Now I'm not sure do I need still use mutibackend with levedb-only
&gt; backend.
&gt;
&gt; And my problem is (as I mentioned earlier) the following. On leveldb-only
&gt; nodes I see handoffs timedout and no further progress.
&gt;
&gt; On multibackend hosts I have configuration:
&gt;
&gt; {riak\_kv, [
&gt; {add\_paths, ["/usr/lib/riak-cs/lib/riak\_cs-1.5.0/ebin"]},
&gt; {storage\_backend, riak\_cs\_kv\_multi\_backend},
&gt; {multi\_backend\_prefix\_list, [{&lt;&lt;"0b:"&gt;&gt;, be\_blocks}]},
&gt; {multi\_backend\_default, be\_default},
&gt; {multi\_backend, [
&gt; {be\_default, riak\_kv\_eleveldb\_backend, [
&gt; {max\_open\_files, 50},
&gt; {data\_root, "/var/lib/riak/leveldb"}
&gt; ]},
&gt; {be\_blocks, riak\_kv\_bitcask\_backend, [
&gt; {data\_root, "/var/lib/riak/bitcask"}
&gt; ]}
&gt; ]},
&gt;
&gt; And for hosts with leveldb-only backend:
&gt;
&gt; {riak\_kv, [
&gt; {storage\_backend, riak\_kv\_eleveldb\_backend},
&gt; ...
&gt; {eleveldb, [
&gt; {data\_root, "/var/lib/riak/leveldb"}
&gt; (default values for leveldb)
&gt;
&gt; In leveldb logs I see nothing that could help me (no errors in logs).
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Mon, Oct 26, 2015 at 3:57 PM Jon Meredith  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I suspect your {error,enotconn} messages are unrelated - that's likely to
&gt;&gt; be caused by an HTTP client closing the connection while Riak looks up
&gt;&gt; some networking information about the requestor.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; The max\_concurrency message you are seeing is related to the handoff
&gt;&gt; transfer limit - it should be labelled as informational. When a node has
&gt;&gt; data to handoff it starts the handoff sender process and if there are
&gt;&gt; either too many local handoff processes or too many on the remote side it
&gt;&gt; exits with max\_concurrency. You could increase with riak-admin
&gt;&gt; transfer-limit but that probably won't help if you're timing out.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; As you're using the multi-backend you're transferring data from bitcask
&gt;&gt; and leveldb. The next place I would look is in the leveldb LOG files to
&gt;&gt; see if there are any leveldb vnodes that are having problems that's
&gt;&gt; preventing repair.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Jon
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Mon, Oct 26, 2015 at 7:15 AM Vladyslav Zakhozhai &lt;
&gt;&gt; v.zakhoz...@smartweb.com.ua&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Hello,
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; I have a problem with persistent timeouts during ownership handoffs.
&gt;&gt;&gt; I've tried to surf over Internet and current mail list but no success.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; I have Riak 1.4.12 cluster with 17 nodes. Almost all nodes use
&gt;&gt;&gt; multibackend with bitcask and eleveldb as storage backends (we need
&gt;&gt;&gt; multiple backend for Riak CS 1.5.0 integration).
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Now I'm working to migrate Riak cluster to eleveldb as primary and only
&gt;&gt;&gt; backend. For now I have 2 nodes with eleveldb backend in the same cluster.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; During ownership handoff process I permanently see errors of timed out
&gt;&gt;&gt; handoff receivers and sender.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Here is partial output of riak-admin transfers:
&gt;&gt;&gt; ...
&gt;&gt;&gt; transfer type: ownership\_transfer
&gt;&gt;&gt; vnode type: riak\_kv\_vnode
&gt;&gt;&gt; partition: 331121464707782692405522344912282871640797216768
&gt;&gt;&gt; started: 2015-10-21 08:32:55 [46.66 min ago]
&gt;&gt;&gt; last update: no updates seen
&gt;&gt;&gt; total size: unknown
&gt;&gt;&gt; objects transferred: unknown
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; unknown
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak@taipan.pleiad.uaprom =======&gt; r...@eggeater.pleiad.uapr
&gt;&gt;&gt; om
&gt;&gt;&gt; | | 0%
&gt;&gt;&gt; unknown
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; transfer type: ownership\_transfer
&gt;&gt;&gt; vnode type: riak\_kv\_vnode
&gt;&gt;&gt; partition: 336830455478606531929755488790080852186328203264
&gt;&gt;&gt; started: 2015-10-21 08:32:54 [46.68 min ago]
&gt;&gt;&gt; last update: no updates seen
&gt;&gt;&gt; total size: unknown
&gt;&gt;&gt; objects transferred: unknown
&gt;&gt;&gt; ...
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Some of partition handoffs state never updates, some of them terminates
&gt;&gt;&gt; after partial handoff objects and never starts again.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; I see nothing in logs but following:
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; On receiver side:
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; 2015-10-21 11:33:55.131 [error]
&gt;&gt;&gt; &lt;0.25390.1266&gt;@riak\_core\_handoff\_receiver:handle\_info:105 Handoff receiver
&gt;&gt;&gt; for partition 331121464707782692405522344912282871640797216768 timed out
&gt;&gt;&gt; after processing 0 objects.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; On sender side:
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; 2015-10-21 11:01:58.879 [error] &lt;0.13177.1401&gt; CRASH REPORT Process
&gt;&gt;&gt; &lt;0.13177.1401&gt; with 0 neighbours crashed with reason: no function clause
&gt;&gt;&gt; matching webmachine\_request:peer\_from\_peername({error,enotconn},
&gt;&gt;&gt; {webmachine\_request,{wm\_reqstate,#Port&lt;0.50978116&gt;,[],undefined,undefined,undefined,{wm\_reqdata,...},...}})
&gt;&gt;&gt; line 150
&gt;&gt;&gt; 2015-10-21 11:32:50.055 [error] &lt;0.207.0&gt; Supervisor
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak\_core\_handoff\_sender\_sup had child riak\_core\_handoff\_sender started
&gt;&gt;&gt; with {riak\_core\_handoff\_sender,start\_link,undefined} at &lt;0.22312.1090&gt; exit
&gt;&gt;&gt; with reason max\_concurrency in context child\_terminated
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; {error, enotconn} - seems to be network issue. But I have no any
&gt;&gt;&gt; problems with network. All hosts resolve their neighbors correctly and
&gt;&gt;&gt; /etc/hosts on each node are correct.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; I've tried to increase handoff\_timeout and handoff\_receive\_timeout. But
&gt;&gt;&gt; no success.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Forcing handoff helped me but for short period of time:
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; rpc:multicall([node() | nodes()], riak\_core\_vnode\_manager, force\_handoffs, 
&gt;&gt;&gt; []).
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; I see progress of handoffs (riak-admin transfers) but then I see handoff 
&gt;&gt;&gt; timed out again.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; A week ago I've joined 4 nodes with bitcask. And there was no such problems.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; I'm confused a little bit and need to understand my next steps in 
&gt;&gt;&gt; troubleshooting this issue.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

