---
title: "Re: riak-cs_1.4.1-1 Debian package"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-09-18T05:34:38-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12298"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12297"
author_name: "Jared Morrow"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-09-18T05:34:38-07:00
---


Sebastian,

There is no newer package. Can you tell me the following:

\* What debian version are you on?
\* What user did you run the above command on? Do they have root access?

&gt;From that same user can you do this:

mkdir -p /etc/riak-cs && touch /etc/riak-cs/testfile && echo "success"

\* If you are running in a virtualized environment, what type is it?

The package script should be adding files to /etc/riak-cs before the chmod
command gets there, so something is fishy about the files not being added.
 Either the user or system has weird permissions on adding files to /etc/
or there is a bug in the package. Once you get back to me, I'll try to
reproduce on my end.

-Jared


On Wed, Sep 18, 2013 at 6:08 AM, Sebastian Müller wrote:

&gt; Hello,
&gt; I tired to install riak-cs on Debian, but installation fails due to an
&gt; error in the post-install script.
&gt;
&gt; # dpkg -i riak-cs\_1.4.1-1\_amd64.deb
&gt; Selecting previously unselected package riak-cs.
&gt; (Reading database ... 51331 files and directories currently installed.)
&gt; Unpacking riak-cs (from riak-cs\_1.4.1-1\_amd64.deb) ...
&gt; Setting up riak-cs (1.4.1-1) ...
&gt; chmod: cannot access `/etc/riak-cs/\*': No such file or directory
&gt; dpkg: error processing riak-cs (--install):
&gt; subprocess installed post-installation script returned error exit status 1
&gt; Processing triggers for man-db ...
&gt; Errors were encountered while processing:
&gt; riak-cs
&gt;
&gt; The VM has no internet connection (has access to the university's Debian
&gt; repo), so I downloaded them from the Basho website. I expected the config
&gt; files for riak-cs in /etc/riak-cs, but the directory is empty.
&gt;
&gt; Is there a newer version of the package or is it a bug?
&gt;
&gt; Regards,
&gt; Sebastian
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\*\*\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/\*\*mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_\*\*lists.basho.com
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

