---
title: "[ANN] Riak Ruby Client 2.0.0.rc1"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-06-23T13:42:37-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14355"
author_name: "Bryce Kerley"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-06-23T13:42:37-07:00
---


Eager to get the jump on testing your Ruby application that talks to 
Riak 2.0? We've released a release candidate of Riak Ruby Client 2.0.0.

\*\*WARNING\*\*: this is pre-release software! There are bugs waiting to be
discovered and fixed. If you do discover shortcomings and problems, please
file an issue at https://github.com/basho/riak-ruby-client/issues .

Version 2.0.0 is a major new version with many new features, API changes,
and feature removals.

New features:

\* Yokozuna: full-text search built on Solr and powered by Riak.
\* Riak security: TLS-encrypted and authenticated protocol buffers, access
 control, and more!
\* Convergent Replicated Data Types (CRDTs): counters, maps, and sets, all with
 convenient and safe distributed semantics.
\* Bucket types: the building blocks of Yokozuna, access control, and CRDTs.

API changes:

\* Exceptions raised by the client are subclasses of `Riak::Error`.
\* The internals of the Beefcake-based protocol buffers support have been
 refactored for reliability and maintainability.
\* The Beefcake version has been bumped to 1.0 for improvements in speed and
 memory usage.
\* Tests now use RSpec 3.

Removed:

\* HTTP support has been removed from the Riak Ruby Client in favor of focusing
 on Protocol Buffers.
\* The included test-server has been removed. Tests now require a Riak node to
 be configured and run independently of the test suite.

Thanks,
Bryce Kerley
Software Engineer
Basho Technologies
br...@basho.com

smime.p7s
Description: S/MIME digital signature
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

