---
title: "Re: [ANN] Riak 1.4.8"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-02-26T07:07:35-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13711"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13710"
author_name: "John Caprice"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-02-26T07:07:35-08:00
---


Toby,

Were you running with AAE disabled until 1.4.8 was released? If so, AAE is
likely repairing objects that needed to be read repaired during that time.

Thanks,

John


On Tue, Feb 25, 2014 at 11:02 PM, Toby Corkindale  wrote:

&gt; Hi,
&gt; After upgrading to 1.4.8 in staging, last week, we've been seeing a
&gt; fairly constant extra amount of riak hits in the stats. Consistently
&gt; 300-400 a minute. Can get lost in the much higher, varying levels
&gt; during busy hours, but outside of that it's quite visible as a
&gt; baseline.
&gt; The logs show a lot of AAE work going on.
&gt;
&gt; I wondered if this was normal behaviour of Riak cleaning up the
&gt; AAE-related bug from earlier versions, and will go away eventually? Or
&gt; that unlikely?
&gt; I emphasize that there's no significant server load resulting from
&gt; this -- I'm just curious if it's something I need to look into or not.
&gt;
&gt; Cheers,
&gt; Toby
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On 21 February 2014 04:00, Tom Santero  wrote:
&gt; &gt; Hi,
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Today, Basho released a minor update of Riak and Riak Enterprise Edition,
&gt; &gt; version 1.4.8. This bug-fix release addresses a regression[0] in Riak's
&gt; &gt; active anti-entropy (AAE) system. The regression existed in versions
&gt; 1.4.3
&gt; &gt; through 1.4.7.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; The complete release notes[1] and package downloads[2] are now available.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Thanks for being the best community ever.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Regards,
&gt; &gt; The Basho Team
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; [0]
&gt; &gt;
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/pipermail/riak-users\_lists.basho.com/2014-January/014551.html
&gt; &gt; [1] https://github.com/basho/riak/blob/1.4/RELEASE-NOTES.md
&gt; &gt; [2] http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/downloads/
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Turning and turning in the widening gyre
&gt; The falcon cannot hear the falconer
&gt; Things fall apart; the center cannot hold
&gt; Mere anarchy is loosed upon the world
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

