---
title: "Re: Riak-CS Not Inheriting Permissions?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-10-14T08:52:41-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15036"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15034"
author_name: "Luke Bakken"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-10-14T08:52:41-07:00
---


Hi Anthony,

When you put files, are you also including any ACL information?

http://docs.basho.com/riakcs/latest/cookbooks/Access-Control-Lists/

--
Luke Bakken
Engineer / CSE
lbak...@basho.com


On Tue, Oct 14, 2014 at 8:07 AM, Valenti, Anthony
 wrote:
&gt; Does anyone have an idea why this is working this way or if it is
&gt; functioning as designed? Am I expecting it to do something that it doesn’t
&gt; do? If so, then how can I get it do what I am expecting.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; We are running Riak-CS on version 1.4.8.
&gt;
&gt; Here is the situation. We have a bucket that is owned by Acct1 that has
&gt; folders in it. Acct2 has been granted all permissions to the bucket and all
&gt; sub-folders.
&gt;
&gt; Acct2 puts a file in one of the subfolders, but Acct1 has no permissions at
&gt; all for the file.
&gt;
&gt; Acct1 puts a file in the same folder and Acct2 automatically has all of the
&gt; same permissions to the file as it has to the parent folder.
&gt;
&gt; Why is it working this way and how do I get it to inherit permissions
&gt; automatically?
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt;
&gt; Anthony
&gt;
&gt; \*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Inmar Confidentiality Note: This e-mail and any attachments are
&gt; confidential and intended to be viewed and used solely by the intended
&gt; recipient. If you are not the intended recipient, be aware that any
&gt; disclosure, dissemination, distribution, copying or use of this e-mail or
&gt; any attachment is prohibited. If you received this e-mail in error, please
&gt; notify us immediately by returning it to the sender and delete this copy and
&gt; all attachments from your system and destroy any printed copies. Thank you
&gt; for your cooperation.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Notice of Protected Rights: The removal of any copyright, trademark, or
&gt; proprietary legend contained in this e-mail or any attachment is prohibited
&gt; without the express, written permission of Inmar, Inc. Furthermore, the
&gt; intended recipient must maintain all copyright notices, trademarks, and
&gt; proprietary legends within this e-mail and any attachments in their original
&gt; form and location if the e-mail or any attachments are reproduced, printed
&gt; or distributed.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

