---
title: "Re: Question regarding support for images"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-03-06T18:11:19-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10343"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg10342"
author_name: "Matthew Von-Maszewski"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-03-06T18:11:19-08:00
---


Bryan,

My job is to test and optimize leveldb. I do not have a test case with your 
size objects. Hence I asked the specifics.

I do not have any data at this time to help with your question. But I will add 
your parameters to my standard testing and see what I can find / optimize. I 
am not currently performing comparison work against bitcask and must leave 
those opinions to others.

Matthew


On Mar 6, 2013, at 8:15 PM, Bryan Hughes  wrote:

&gt; Hi Matthew,
&gt; 
&gt; Right now we are storing images captured from mobile phones in Riak. So far 
&gt; it works really well as the image sizes range from a few hundred K to a few 
&gt; MB. But, as camera resolutions increase, so does the data size, plus, users 
&gt; are actually interested in the higher resolution images if they decide to 
&gt; print them.
&gt; 
&gt; I am hoping to understand is the largest "chunk" size that a binary value 
&gt; should have and whether or not leveldb would be better or worse than bitcask. 
&gt; For example, if it is as Mark suggested where the optimal size would be 
&gt; 10MB, that would mean that we would be chunking a 50MB binary object into 5 
&gt; concurrent writes. For us, this is actually a very good solution since our 
&gt; platform does not actually operate on any of the data it is persisting and 
&gt; can achieve the scale necessary.
&gt; 
&gt; A little bit of background - we have developed a novel message queue 
&gt; architecture/platform in Erlang that is optimized for mobile devices that is 
&gt; currently in private beta (will be opening it up to a public beta around the 
&gt; end of March). We provide an SDK that allows mobile developers access to 
&gt; light weight services running on our platform that gives instant group 
&gt; collaboration functionality ranging from group/device discovery, group 
&gt; formation and management, to real-time chat (feature set is actually pretty 
&gt; comprehensive). The SDK allows developers to drop our service into any 
&gt; existing or new project with just a few lines of code, which means that the 
&gt; binary data will be whatever the developer decides to push along the wire, 
&gt; from images to audio to even video clips. 
&gt; 
&gt; If you are interested, here is a link to our docs: 
&gt; http://developer.go-factory.net/
&gt; 
&gt; Also note, I understand that the larger the data size, the more on-the-wire 
&gt; cost within the cluster, for example if the data size is 10MB, with n\_val 
&gt; of 3, that is 30MB on the wire for each chunk, and with 5 chunks, that comes 
&gt; out to 150MB. For us that is less of an issue as we host our own service on 
&gt; dedicated dual ported gigabit hardware co-located at two major data centers. 
&gt; 
&gt; Does this help?
&gt; 
&gt; Cheers,
&gt; Bryan
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On 3/6/13 4:14 PM, Matthew Von-Maszewski wrote:
&gt;&gt; Just curious, what is the typical size and the overall range of sizes for 
&gt;&gt; your image data?
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Matthew
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On Mar 6, 2013, at 6:08 PM, Bryan Hughes  wrote:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Hi Everyone,
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; I am building a new 5 node cluster with 1.3.0 and am transitioning from 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Bitcask to LevelDB (or perhaps a Mulit with LevelDB being the main) which 
&gt;&gt;&gt; is all well understood. My question is regarding image data, and other 
&gt;&gt;&gt; large binary data: Is one better than the other in terms of the size of 
&gt;&gt;&gt; binary data that can be stored, as well as performance of reads? I recall 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Mark suggesting to limit binary data to 10MB.
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; I am curious where this limitation comes from?
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt;&gt; Bryan
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; -- 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Bryan Hughes
&gt;&gt;&gt; Go Factory
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://www.go-factory.net
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; -- 
&gt; Bryan Hughes
&gt; CTO and Founder / Go Factory
&gt; (415) 515-7916
&gt; http://www.go-factory.net
&gt; 
&gt; "Art is never finished, only abandoned. - Leonardo da Vinci"
&gt; 

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

