---
title: "Re: Core Claim and Property-Based Tests"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2017-05-16T09:54:29-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg18208"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg18207"
author_name: "Tom Santero"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2017-05-16T09:54:29-07:00
---


I'm aware of a few other companies and individuals who are interested in
continued development and support in a post-Basho world. Ideally the
community can come together and contribute to a single, canonical fork.

Semi-related, there's a good chance this mailing list won't last much
longer, either. I'm happy to personally contribute time and resources to
help maintain the community.

Tom

On Tue, May 16, 2017 at 11:51 AM, Martin Sumner  wrote:

&gt;
&gt; I've raised an issue with Core today (https://github.com/basho/
&gt; riak\_core/issues/908), related to the claim algorithms.
&gt;
&gt; There's a long-read associated with this, which provides a broader
&gt; analysis of how claim works with the ring:
&gt;
&gt; https://github.com/martinsumner/riak\_core/blob/
&gt; mas-claimv2issues/docs/ring\_claim.md
&gt;
&gt; I believe the long-read explains some of the common mysterious issues
&gt; which can occur with claim.
&gt;
&gt; We're in the process of fixing up the property-based tests for
&gt; riak\_core\_claim.erl, and will then be looking to make some improvements to
&gt; claim v2 to try and pass the improved tests.
&gt;
&gt; Big question is though, how can we progress any contribution we make into
&gt; the Riak codebase? What is the plan going forward for open-source
&gt; contributions to Riak? Do Basho have any contingency plans for smoothly
&gt; handing over open-source code to the community, before the list of Basho's
&gt; Github people (https://github.com/orgs/basho/people) who still work at
&gt; Basho is reduced to zero?
&gt;
&gt; Is this something of concern to others?
&gt;
&gt; Regards
&gt;
&gt; Martin
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

