---
title: "Re: LevelDB"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-06-08T09:24:07-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16228"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16222"
author_name: "Matthew Von-Maszewski"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-06-08T09:24:07-07:00
---


Joe,

I have built up your config and confirmed two bugs:

- you need the fourth config line:

leveldb.tiered = 4
leveldb.tiered.path.fast = /mnt/fast
leveldb.tiered.path.slow = /mnt/slow
leveldb.data\_root = ./leveldb

- you must manually create the /mnt/fast/leveldb and /mnt/slow/leveldb 
directories before starting riak

Quick test says everything is happy after that. I will get documentation and 
start-up scripts updated.

Thanks,
Matthew


&gt; On Jun 8, 2015, at 10:37 AM, Joe Olson  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; Here you go. Thanks for the help. My riak.conf is mostly stock, except for 
&gt; the LevelDB changes.
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; From: "Matthew Von-Maszewski" 
&gt; To: "Mr. Technology" 
&gt; Cc: "riak-users" 
&gt; Sent: Saturday, June 6, 2015 9:08:00 AM
&gt; Subject: Re: LevelDB
&gt; 
&gt; There is a script macro that puts paths together during program start. I 
&gt; will go look at that.
&gt; 
&gt; It would help if you would send your riak.conf file.
&gt; 
&gt; Matthew
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Jun 5, 2015, at 7:48 PM, Mr. Technology  &gt; wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; After installing Riak 2.1.1 on a 5 node Centos7 based test cluster, I 
&gt; followed the instructions at 
&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/ops/advanced/backends/leveldb/ 
&gt;  to attempt 
&gt; to configure a tiered LevelDB backend.
&gt; 
&gt; My /etc/riak/riak.conf:
&gt; 
&gt; storage\_backend = leveldb
&gt; leveldb.tiered = 4
&gt; leveldb.tiered.path.fast = /mnt/fast
&gt; leveldb.tiered.path.slow = /mnt/slow
&gt; 
&gt; Upon start, riak crashes with the following message in the log:
&gt; 
&gt; \*\* 
&gt; {function\_clause,[{riak\_kv\_vnode,terminate,[{bad\_return\_value,{stop,{db\_open,"IO
&gt; error: 
&gt; /mnt/fast//var/lib/riak/leveldb/159851741583067506678528028578343455274867621888/LOCK:
&gt; No such file or 
&gt; directory"}}},undefined],[{file,"src/riak\_kv\_vnode.erl"},{line,1155}]},{riak\_core\_vnode,terminate,3,[{file,"src/riak\_core\_vnode.erl"},{line,907}]},{gen\_fsm,terminate,7,[{file,"gen\_fsm.erl"},{line,597}]},{proc\_lib,init\_p\_do\_apply,3,[{file,"proc\_lib.erl"},{line,239}]}]}
&gt; 
&gt; I assume the error is due to riak trying to write to the bogus path:
&gt; 
&gt; /mnt/fast//var/lib/riak/leveldb/159851741583067506678528028578343455274867621888/LOCK
&gt; 
&gt; (bogus due to the double slash above)
&gt; 
&gt; Is this a bug, erroneous documentation, or a configuration problem?? I 
&gt; followed the example as closely as I could.
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com 
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

