---
title: "Re: Rebuilding Solr indexes"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-01-28T04:09:54-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15607"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15606"
author_name: "Sorin Manole"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-01-28T04:09:54-08:00
---


Hi Eric,

Thanks for the detailed explanations..

Yes, we are using Yokozuna.

Regarding the 4th option, which seems the ideal one, is that feature
already released? If not, I'd say the 3rd one would be the best one,
instead of reading and writing back all the keys.

I'm pretty new to Riak, just wondering - is AAE active by default or do we
have to activate it?

Our version of Riak is: \*2.0.0-7-g547f0e0\*

Cheers!


On 27 January 2015 at 23:02, Eric Redmond  wrote:

&gt;
&gt; On Jan 27, 2015, at 3:21 AM, Sorin Manole 
&gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Hi all,
&gt;
&gt; We are using Solr indexes on top of Riak keys to make the search more
&gt; easier.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Just to clarify, are you using Riak Search (aka, Yokozuna), or are you
&gt; managing Solr separately? I’m assuming the former.
&gt;
&gt; One of the doubts regarding Solr is rebuilding the indexes. That could
&gt; happen when we want to add a new index to the schema - which would mean
&gt; drop and recreate the indexes.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Do you mean adding a new field to the schema? You have a few options after
&gt; updating the schemas.
&gt;
&gt; 1) Create a new index and reattach, as you suggested
&gt; 2) Rewrite Riak values inline, which will cause them to re-index
&gt; 3) Delete the index directories on every node and let AAE rebuild them
&gt;
&gt; There’s some new code that will create a 4th option
&gt; https://github.com/basho/yokozuna/pull/427
&gt;
&gt; 4) update the schema and let AAE fix the index
&gt;
&gt; Then, we're working on a 5th option:
&gt;
&gt; 5) modify schemas via command-line, and start an inline, eventually
&gt; consistent index update
&gt;
&gt; There is an existing discussion on this topic:
&gt;
&gt; http://comments.gmane.org/gmane.comp.db.riak.user/15420
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; As far as we know after dropping and recreating the Solr indexes, for the
&gt; already existing keys in Riak thos indexes don't rebuild. Is there a way to
&gt; rebuild indexes on already existing keys when recreating a Solr index?
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; See above.
&gt;
&gt; Also, if that's possible, any idea how time costly that'd be? Let's take
&gt; example rebuilding indexes for 100 million riak keys.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; This is hard to say. Depending on the number of nodes, hardware,
&gt; bandwidth, object size, etc. If they’re small objects, it could be a few
&gt; minutes.
&gt;
&gt; Another doubt is around corrupting Solr indexes? How "probable" is it?
&gt; Same question as before.. in the case of a corrupted index, how easy would
&gt; be to re-index 100 million keys?
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; You shouldn’t need re-index anything. If values in an index are corrupted,
&gt; the AAE (active anti-entropy) service will repair the values automatically.
&gt;
&gt; Thanks in advance.
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; [image: photo]
&gt; \*Sorin Manole\*
&gt; Senior Software Engineer, Trustev
&gt; m:+353 86 051 2658 | e:sorin.man...@trustev.com | w:www.trustev.com
&gt; | a: Trustev Ltd, 2100
&gt; Airport Business Park, Cork, Ireland.
&gt;
&gt; This message is for the named person's use only. If you received this
&gt; message in error, please immediately delete it and all copies and notify
&gt; the sender. You must not, directly or indirectly, use, disclose,
&gt; distribute, print, or copy any part of this message if you are not the
&gt; intended recipient. Any views expressed in this message are those of the
&gt; individual sender and not Trustev Ltd. Trustev is registered in Ireland
&gt; No. 516425 and trades from 2100 Cork Airport Business Park, Cork, Ireland.
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;


-- 
[image: photo]
\*Sorin Manole\*
Senior Software Engineer, Trustev
m:+353 86 051 2658 | e:sorin.man...@trustev.com | w:www.trustev.com
| a: Trustev Ltd, 2100 Airport
Business Park, Cork, Ireland.

-- 


This message is for the named person's use only. If you received this 
message in error, please immediately delete it and all copies and notify 
the sender. You must not, directly or indirectly, use, disclose, 
distribute, print, or copy any part of this message if you are not the 
intended recipient. Any views expressed in this message are those of the 
individual sender and not Trustev Ltd. Trustev is registered in Ireland No. 
516425 and trades from 2100 Cork Airport Business Park, Cork, Ireland.
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

