---
title: "Re: Is Riak dead?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2017-07-13T09:53:22-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg18330"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg18329"
author_name: "Outback Dingo"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2017-07-13T09:53:22-07:00
---


well, if thats the case someone best be starting a new site and
mailing list soon in case this one dissappears

On Thu, Jul 13, 2017 at 12:40 PM, Russell Brown
 wrote:
&gt; Hi Senthilkumar,
&gt; No Riak is not dead. It’s parent company, Basho is dead. And they kept the 
&gt; keys. There are numerous forks that are being worked on. Hopefully something 
&gt; that is a canonical, community backed fork will emerge. Past mailing list 
&gt; posts show strong support from large commercial and govt. organisations. Riak 
&gt; is open source and will continue to be critical infrastructure for numerous 
&gt; organisation in its niche for some time.
&gt;
&gt; There are also a few support organisations springing up, as well as the 
&gt; existing partners (Erlang Solutions, Trifork etc.) If you’re asking me, this 
&gt; could be a very good thing for Riak in the medium to long term. It and it’s 
&gt; users and community were served very badly by Basho these last couple of 
&gt; years. It’s a little trodden under, but no way dead. Give it a little time to 
&gt; bounce back.
&gt;
&gt; Cheers
&gt;
&gt; Russell
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On 11 Jul 2017, at 08:15, Senthilkumar Peelikkampatti  
&gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Is Riak dead? No new activities on Riak GitHub repo.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; https://github.com/basho/riak\_kv/pulse/monthly
&gt;&gt; https://github.com/basho/riak/pulse/monthly
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt; Senthil
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

