---
title: "Re: Wierd hanging problem"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-03-27T10:46:30-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13939"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13937"
author_name: "Jon Meredith"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-03-27T10:46:30-07:00
---


Hi Michael,

This is a long shot, but if you can get it back into that state again,
please to a "riak attach-direct" to the console if you started with "riak
start", otherwise from the console type "ok." and hit enter a few times and
see if that unclogs it.

You should see something like this (IP addresses changed to protect the
innocent)

jons-retina:dev1((riak\_ee-2.0.0pre8)) jmeredith$ bin/riak attach-direct
Direct Shell: Use "Ctrl-D" to quit. "Ctrl-C" will terminate the riak node.
Attaching to
/tmp//Users/jmeredith/basho/work/riak-ee-2.0pre8/dev/dev1/bin/../erlang.pipe.1
(^D to exit)

(dev1@127.0.0.1)1&gt;
(dev1@127.0.0.1)1&gt;
(dev1@127.0.0.1)1&gt;
(dev1@127.0.0.1)1&gt;
(dev1@127.0.0.1)1&gt; ok.
ok
(dev1@127.0.0.1)2&gt;
(dev1@127.0.0.1)2&gt;


I'll be very interested if it unlocks the moment it prints the ok back to
the console.

Beware the ^D to leave if you direct attached - ^C will kill your server.

Jon




On Thu, Mar 27, 2014 at 10:38 AM, Michael Dillon  wrote:

&gt; I was running Riak 2.0pre11 but now see the same problem on pre20
&gt;
&gt; I've reduced the Riak cluster to one single node, to eliminate the
&gt; inter-node communication from the issue. From another server I run a script
&gt; to do 100,000 inserts using the Python client (presumable 1.4.something).
&gt; Each insert is in a loop with 3 retries and it always specifies a server
&gt; timeout value. For this test, the HTML docs are small enough that the
&gt; 60,000 millisec default timeout value is always specified. Currently there
&gt; is no socket timeout specified on the client side.
&gt;
&gt; Part way through, one of the inserts hung. On investigation the Riak
&gt; server seemed in an OK state. I ran strace ps ax and it did not hang.
&gt; strace riak-admin status also was OK. top showed one of the riak processes
&gt; and strace -p PID showed that it was waiting in select. But then, after a
&gt; retry, the client continued to do inserts. That particular strace showed no
&gt; change so not sure whether the process was important. Ran top again and the
&gt; same process showed 80% CPU utilization.
&gt;
&gt; Then we got a full hang of Riak. The client did not retry because the
&gt; server did not timeout. It just hung and hung. Over 15 minutes as I write
&gt; this. When I ran strace ps ax on the Riak server, it hung reading
&gt; /proc/PID/cmdline where PID was the same as the one mentioned above. When I
&gt; run pstree -p (which never hangs) it shows this
&gt;
&gt; |-run\_erl(4171)---beam.smp(4173)-+-cpu\_sup(4473)
&gt;
&gt; 4173 is the PID that I have been talking about. Oddly enough, when I
&gt; opened a new SSH connection to this server, the strace ps ax which had been
&gt; hung on opening a /proc file, suddenly ran to completion. However, running
&gt; it again, hung again on the same line. Here are a few lines of strace ps ax
&gt;
&gt; stat("/proc/4173", {st\_mode=S\_IFDIR|0555, st\_size=0, ...}) = 0
&gt;
&gt; open("/proc/4173/stat", O\_RDONLY) = 6
&gt;
&gt; read(6, "4173 (beam.smp) S 4171 4173 4173"..., 1024) = 277
&gt;
&gt; read(6, "", 747) = 0
&gt;
&gt; close(6) = 0
&gt;
&gt; open("/proc/4173/status", O\_RDONLY) = 6
&gt;
&gt; read(6, "Name:\tbeam.smp\nState:\tS (sleepin"..., 1024) = 787
&gt;
&gt; read(6, "", 237) = 0
&gt;
&gt; close(6) = 0
&gt;
&gt; open("/proc/4173/cmdline", O\_RDONLY) = 6
&gt;
&gt; read(6,
&gt;
&gt; Any idea what is happening?
&gt;
&gt; When Riak is running normally, is there a way to identify a PID which
&gt; would be useful to attach to strace if I see this problem developing? Or
&gt; some other way to look at status of all the different beam.smp processes
&gt; and identify where the problem is located?
&gt;
&gt; Doesn't this indicate a problem with the way that Riak implements the
&gt; server timeout? Shouldn't some supervisor be killing and restarting a child
&gt; process or subtree when this occurs?
&gt; --
&gt; Michael Dillon - Senior Software Engineer
&gt; PageFreezer.com
&gt; #200 - 311 Water Street
&gt; Vancouver, BC V6B 1B8
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;


-- 
Jon Meredith
VP, Engineering
Basho Technologies, Inc.
jmered...@basho.com
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

