---
title: "RE: How to add a secondary index with the Java client"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-04-11T14:11:14-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10859"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg10761"
author_name: "Kevin Burton"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-04-11T14:11:14-07:00
---


The example uses RiakObjectBuilder. It adds the value with value.getBytes()
when value is a string. Why is this necessary? Also it specifically sets the
content type to "text/plain". Same question is this necessary? All of my
objects will be JSON serialized versions of instances of my classes. The
example adds an index. I am assuming that the first argument is the name of
the index and the second is the value? It isn't quite clear from the code.

 

Thanks for the tip.

 

From: Jeremiah Peschka [mailto:jeremiah.pesc...@gmail.com] 
Sent: Monday, April 08, 2013 4:31 PM
To: Kevin Burton
Cc: Jeff Peck; riak-users@lists.basho.com
Subject: Re: How to add a secondary index with the Java client

 

You can find an example of saving indexes here:
https://gist.github.com/1368756/6dc57cbdafca75eda3973dafdc1c35e1c4de08eb#fil
e-integtest-java-L133

 

Where result is IRiakObject, links can be added via (from the README
 )

 

 
 
result.addLink(new RiakLink("otherBucket", "otherKey", "tag"));




---

Jeremiah Peschka - Founder, Brent Ozar Unlimited

MCITP: SQL Server 2008, MVP

Cloudera Certified Developer for Apache Hadoop

 

On Mon, Apr 8, 2013 at 2:20 PM, Kevin Burton 
wrote:

I have the same question if you find an answer. I would also like to use a
Java client to add links.


On Apr 8, 2013, at 3:56 PM, Jeff Peck  wrote:

&gt; Hello,
&gt;
&gt; I have been looking through the documentation for an example of how to add
a secondary index in Riak, using the Java client.
&gt;
&gt; I am currently storing my object (which is a HashMap) like this:
&gt;
&gt; bucket.store(key, docHashMap).execute();
&gt;
&gt; What would I need to do to add an index to that object before it gets
stored?
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; Jeff
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

 

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

