---
title: "Re: Loopback Address as Handoff IP/Interface"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-05-03T10:16:28-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16095"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16094"
author_name: "Jon Meredith"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-05-03T10:16:28-07:00
---


Hi Praveen,

It's unusual to want to set the handoff.ip address to 127.0.0.1 unless
you're trying to run multiple nodes on a single machine (we call that a
devrel). As you may have noticed we just issued a data loss advisory about
exactly that - please see
http://lists.basho.com/pipermail/riak-users\_lists.basho.com/2015-May/017146.html

\*Only\* set handoff.ip to 127.0.0.1 if you are running the nodes on the same
machine. I suspect what you want instead is a private network between the
nodes, in which case you should configure handoff.ip to be the node address
on the private network.

Jon

On Sun, May 3, 2015 at 5:19 AM, Praveen Baratam 
wrote:

&gt; Hello Everybody,
&gt;
&gt; I am trying to setup a single node Riak cluster and want to use a loopback
&gt; address (127.0.0.x) for the Handoff IP to keep the instance private and
&gt; invisible to others.
&gt;
&gt; But the Riak node fails to start and throws an error - "handoff.ip
&gt; invalid, must be a valid IP address"
&gt;
&gt; Is it illegal to use loopback interface for Handoff IP? Came across some JIRA
&gt; issues  but couldn't find
&gt; a solution with out having to build packages from source.
&gt;
&gt; Any workarounds? I am trying to use Riak 1.4.12 on Ubuntu 14.04!
&gt;
&gt; Any advice in this regard will be greatly helpful.
&gt;
&gt; Thank you.
&gt;
&gt; Praveen
&gt;
&gt; about.me 
&gt; ᐧ
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;


-- 
Jon Meredith
Chief Architect
Basho Technologies, Inc.
jmered...@basho.com
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

