---
title: "Re: 1.4.8, memory_backend max_memory not honored?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-06-24T10:51:13-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14367"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14366"
author_name: "Allen Landsidel"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-06-24T10:51:13-07:00
---



Thanks Christian,

Giving that a try while I build a new 1.4.9 test cluster.

On 6/24/2014 13:27, Christian Dahlqvist wrote:

Hi Allen,

Apart from the memory backend, AAE will also be consuming memory as you
currently have it enabled. I would recommend running the test again with
anti entropy turned off to see how much impact that has.

Best regards,

Christian





On Tue, Jun 24, 2014 at 5:29 PM, Allen Landsidel
&gt; wrote:

 Sure Luke.

 The app.config is attached.

 Does that riak\_kv/940 sound like it could be responsible?


 On 6/24/2014 12:15, Luke Bakken wrote:

 Hi Allen,

 There were some fixes to the memory backend in 1.4.9:
 https://github.com/basho/riak/\_\_blob/1.4/RELEASE-NOTES.md
 

 Could you please provide your app.config file? I'd like to check
 it and
 test out your scenario locally.

 --
 Luke Bakken
 CSE
 lbak...@basho.com 
&gt;



 On Tue, Jun 24, 2014 at 8:59 AM, Allen Landsidel
 
&gt;&gt; wrote:

 Test cluster with 2 machines running 1.4.8 with the memory
 backend.
 app\_config has ring\_creation\_size 64, max\_memory 4. If I
 understand
 the documentation correctly this should result in a maximum
 memory
 footprint (minus overhead) of 256M. Each node has 2G RAM,
 2G of
 swap. After running for a while constantly adding data,
 without
 ever explicitly removing any, the memory footprint outstrips
 physical ram and will eventually consume all available swap
 space
 and be killed.

 Is this a known issue in 1.4.8 that's fixed in 1.4.9, or is
 there
 other configuration settings that need adjusted to reduce
 the footprint?

 Initially I had set it up to top out at 1GB but when it started
 exhausting swap, I progressively reduced max\_memory until I
 arrived
 where I am now, with no difference at all.

 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
 riak-users mailing list
 riak-users@lists.basho.com 
&gt;
 
http://lists.basho.com/\_\_\_\_mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_\_\_\_\_lists.basho.com
 
&gt;



 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
 riak-users mailing list
 riak-users@lists.basho.com 
 http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com




\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

