---
title: "Re: Status and maturity of riak-cs"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2017-07-31T17:46:16-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg18398"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg18389"
author_name: "Toby Corkindale"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2017-07-31T17:46:16-07:00
---


Riak CS works, but has some long-standing issues that have never been
resolved.
It doesn't support AWSv4 auth signatures, so some client libraries won't
talk to it at all.
It's quite fragile in respect to its connections to Riak KV -- if KV is
slow to start up, then Riak CS dies. If KV is restarted, then CS just error
messages to client for as many requests as you have internal worker
connections. (ie. many across your cluster)

Performance isn't particularly good, and disk usage ends up far higher than
you'd expect.

I've been actively trying to migrate over to Minio for S3 storage, instead.
Worth a look, and unlike riak CS, has had lots of active development in
recent times.

-Toby

On Thu, 20 Jul 2017 at 02:28 Stefan Funk  wrote:

&gt; Hi everybody,
&gt;
&gt; I'm new to Riak-CS and just joined the group.
&gt;
&gt; We've been exploring Riak-CS now for a couple of days and consider it as a
&gt; potential inhouse-alternative to external S3-based storage providers.
&gt;
&gt; Given the last commit was in January 2016, the question rose as to how
&gt; well the project is supported and how mature the solution is.
&gt;
&gt; I'd be very thankful for any comments from the community on this.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Best regards
&gt;
&gt; Stefan
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

