---
title: "Re: distribution of data among riak cluster physical nodes"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-10-15T07:08:52-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12630"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12629"
author_name: "John Daily"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-10-15T07:08:52-07:00
---


Replies inline

On Oct 15, 2013, at 9:49 AM, kzhang  wrote:

&gt; I think the below setting is what we want to use for our environment
&gt;&gt; r = 1
&gt;&gt; notfound\_ok=false
&gt;&gt; basic\_quorum = true
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; the client gets notfound if the first two replies are notfound? if the
&gt;&gt; first
&gt;&gt; reply is found, the client gets found? if the first reply is notfound, the
&gt;&gt; second is found, does the client get found, or have to wait for the third
&gt;&gt; vnode (in my environment, N=3) to reply?
&gt; « [hide part of quote]
&gt; 
&gt; notfound will be returned only if both servers return notfound, and the
&gt; request will not wait for a 3rd server in any sequence of events. 
&gt; 
&gt; Just to confirm -- if the first reply is found, the client gets found? if
&gt; the first reply is notfound, the
&gt; second is found, the client also gets found?

Correct.


&gt; 
&gt; BTW, what is the proper channel to get the documentation page
&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/dev/references/http/fetch-object/ updated
&gt; in regards to R and PR, with what you suggested above? 

We already have some tickets to improve the docs by integrating/linking to 
those blog posts; I've extended a recent ticket to note that we need to flesh 
out the docs on this topic in particular.

https://github.com/basho/basho\_docs/issues/627

Thanks, and feel free to submit other tickets there as you find areas where the 
documentation needs to be improved.

-John


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

