---
title: "Re: Framework to Migrate data from SQL Server and from DB2 to RIAK	for Java application"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-06-30T06:53:39-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14425"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14417"
author_name: "Dmitri Zagidulin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-06-30T06:53:39-07:00
---


Sangeetha,

As Bryan mentioned, above, the first thing you want to double-check, when
migrating your blob type column to Riak, is the typical (and max) blob size.
If your objects are less than 1mb, then storing in Riak should be fine. If
the max object size runs larger than 1mb, you should store those blobs in
Riak CS http://docs.basho.com/riakcs/latest/ (it's built on top of Riak,
and serves exactly this use case).

As far as migrating a column or a table to Riak, we do not have any SQL
migration tool - you would have to write the migrating code yourself.

The main thing to keep in mind, when loading massive amounts of data into
Riak, is to take advantage of Riak's parallelism. Spin up multiple worker
threads to issue puts, and be sure to take advantage of the Java client's
connection pooling.
There is some good sample Java code for loading objects into Riak in the
Riak Data Migrator repo ( https://github.com/basho-labs/riak-data-migrator
),

Take a look at
https://github.com/basho-labs/riak-data-migrator/blob/master/src/main/java/com/basho/proserv/datamigrator/io/ThreadedRiakObjectWriter.java
and
https://github.com/basho-labs/riak-data-migrator/blob/master/src/main/java/com/basho/riak/pbc/RiakObjectIO.java
for some example code.

Thanks!
Dmitri


On Mon, Jun 30, 2014 at 3:22 AM, Sangeetha &lt;
sangeetha.subraman...@gtnexus.com&gt; wrote:

&gt; Hi there,
&gt;
&gt; We are planning to migrate data from SQL Server and DB2 to RIAK.
&gt;
&gt; Right now we have a table with a column type blob. Querying this table is
&gt; causing huge traffic.
&gt; Is moving the column alone to RIAK is better or moving the table as whole
&gt; to
&gt; RIAK is better. What is the best way to do this ?
&gt;
&gt; We develop java application to access the RDBMS. Could someone tell me on
&gt; what is the best approach to migrate data from SQL Server and also from DB2
&gt; to RIAK.
&gt; Is there any common approach which can be used both DBs ? Please let me
&gt; know
&gt;
&gt; Thanks
&gt; Sangeetha
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; View this message in context:
&gt; http://riak-users.197444.n3.nabble.com/Framework-to-Migrate-data-from-SQL-Server-and-from-DB2-to-RIAK-for-Java-application-tp4031318.html
&gt; Sent from the Riak Users mailing list archive at Nabble.com.
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

