---
title: "Re: RiakCS configs and quoting of backends"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-04-09T08:06:00-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10796"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg10784"
author_name: "Reid Draper"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-04-09T08:06:00-07:00
---


Hey Toby, comments inline:

On Apr 8, 2013, at 9:45 PM, Toby Corkindale 
 wrote:

&gt; Hi,
&gt; I think I've spotted an issue with the configuration snippets given on both 
&gt; these pages, relating to configuring Riak CS.. but it might just be my 
&gt; misunderstanding of Erlang configuration formats.
&gt; 
&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riakcs/latest/tutorials/fast-track/Building-a-Local-Test-Environment/
&gt; 
&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riakcs/latest/cookbooks/configuration/Configuring-Riak/
&gt; 
&gt; On those pages, none of the names of backends are quoted.
&gt; ie. We have {be\_blocks, riak\_kv\_bitcask\_backend,
&gt; rather than:
&gt; {&lt;&lt;"be\_blocks""&gt;, riak\_kv\_bitcask\_backend,

Both of those links look correct to me.

&gt; 
&gt; However in the regular Riak configuration section, backend names are always 
&gt; quoted.

Can you provide a link to this?

&gt; 
&gt; Now, I note that if you use the entire configuration snippet verbatim, that 
&gt; it all works. However if you want to set more backends and to select them via 
&gt; REST bucket properties, then you find that none of the backends can be found.

Can you elaborate what you mean here? It's also worth mentioning that, if 
you're using Riak CS, you shouldn't need to add or 'select' more backends for 
the underlying Riak cluster.

&gt; 
&gt; Things only seemed to work as expected once I went through and quoted all the 
&gt; backend names - in the multi\_backend{} part, and also for the prefix\_list and 
&gt; default options.
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; I'm not going to submit any pull requests for this, since I'm not sure if 
&gt; this is even an issue or not, but I thought I'd mention it.
&gt; 
&gt; -Toby
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

