---
title: "Re: Riak Search and custom Solr components"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2016-05-31T09:43:11-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg17435"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg17434"
author_name: "Alexander Sicular"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2016-05-31T09:43:11-07:00
---


Solr config is a bit of an acquired skill, a black art even. Would you be 
willing to shed some light on what you find to work best for you with your use 
case? 

Thank you,
Alexander 


@siculars
http://siculars.posthaven.com

Sent from my iRotaryPhone

&gt; On May 31, 2016, at 10:54, Steve Garon  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; Hey Guillaume, 
&gt; 
&gt; We had to alter the solrconfig.xml in our deployment because the default 
&gt; solrconfig.xml does not give good search throughput with a large amount of 
&gt; documents updating often. I've opened a ticket at basho to get the 
&gt; solrconfig.xml save into the buckets settings that way they would be the same 
&gt; across the cluster. I'm not sure when and if they'll have it in. I guess the 
&gt; more ppl that ask for this, the sooner we'll get it.
&gt; 
&gt; In the meantime, what we did is that during our riak node installation 
&gt; procedure, we create the index using curl then we override the solrconfig.xml 
&gt; and then restart riak which in turn restarts solr. From then, the 
&gt; solrconfig.xml should remain intact. There is one more thing though. 
&gt; Sometimes, for unknown reasons, riak decides to recreate the solrconfig.xml. 
&gt; So you might wanna have a script that runs on the node to validate the 
&gt; solrconfig.xml has not changed and to fix it automatically if it does. 
&gt; 
&gt; I know this is not ideal, solrconfig.xml really needs to be saved in bucket 
&gt; settings like the schema.xml. Lets just hope the Basho works on fixing this 
&gt; ASAP because for big deployments this is kind of crutial.
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; Steve
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On 30 May 2016 at 13:18, Guillaume Boddaert 
&gt;&gt;  wrote:
&gt;&gt; Please allow me to bump this previous message that was sent late last friday 
&gt;&gt; and that didn't attract much attention due to a well deserved week-end.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; On 27/05/2016 19:14, Guillaume Boddaert wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt; Hi there,
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; I'm currently testing custom Component in my Riak Search system. As I need 
&gt;&gt;&gt; a suggestion mechanism from the Solr index, I implemented the Suggester 
&gt;&gt;&gt; component (https://wiki.apache.org/solr/Suggester). 
&gt;&gt;&gt; It seems to work correctly, yet I have some question regarding the usage of 
&gt;&gt;&gt; custom Solr configuration inside of Riak. The only caveat is that Riak 
&gt;&gt;&gt; commits too often and that the suggestion index must be build manually and 
&gt;&gt;&gt; not on commit. That's fine for me, i'll cron that once per day.
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; First of all, how do stop/start/reload the solr instance without disturbing 
&gt;&gt;&gt; the Riak core ? For the time being I'm stuck with service start/stop. How 
&gt;&gt;&gt; can I reload my solr cores configuration without stopping riak ?
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Secondly, is that a good pattern to start tweaking defaults from my solr 
&gt;&gt;&gt; cores (solrconfig.xml) ? Should I stop that right now and consider to use a 
&gt;&gt;&gt; distinct Solr instance if I require those modifications ? Or should I 
&gt;&gt;&gt; consider safe to alter cache/performance settings as well for Solr to match 
&gt;&gt;&gt; my needs ? Can I play with other solr files such as stopwords and stuff 
&gt;&gt;&gt; like that ?
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Finally, is there a proper way to alter default solrconfig.xml ? It is 
&gt;&gt;&gt; auto-generated at index creation by Riak, yet that's a BIG and complex file 
&gt;&gt;&gt; that may evolve between Riak releases. I'm creating indexes programatically 
&gt;&gt;&gt; sending my index through Riak interface ( RiakClient.create\_search\_index in 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Riak Python lib), but if I start to alter configuration I guess I need more 
&gt;&gt;&gt; than that. 
&gt;&gt;&gt; How do you guys would handle this ?
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Guillaume
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

