---
title: "Re: auto-apply different backend config via bucket name prefix"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-05-08T19:35:02-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14202"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14194"
author_name: "Gavin Huang"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-05-08T19:35:02-07:00
---


Hi, Luke

 Thanks for your reply, I realized that also after some investigation.
I was wondering if there is other approaches to achieve my requirement.

Here is my situation:
1. A tenant can save object to any bucket that with name start with
tenant's name, for example service1\_bucket1, service2\_bucket2.

2. these bucket will not be created explicitly, it will leverage riak's
feature, that saving an object to a non-exits bucket will have this bucket
created.

my requirement is have different tenant use different backend (both data
storage type and data dir).

seems the approach will not working in my case, and the pre-hook is for
buckets that already exists, so is there any other way that i can control
the behavior when a bucket is being created?




Thanks.
Gavin




On Thu, May 8, 2014 at 10:43 PM, Luke Bakken  wrote:

&gt; Hi Gavin,
&gt;
&gt; The multi\_backend\_prefix\_list feature is for Riak CS's use and is not
&gt; intended for general use. That being said, the following two configuration
&gt; lines will direct you to how Riak CS accomplishes this:
&gt;
&gt; {add\_paths, ["/usr/lib/riak-cs/lib/riak\_cs-1.4.5/ebin"]},
&gt; {storage\_backend, riak\_cs\_kv\_multi\_backend},
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Luke Bakken
&gt; CSE
&gt; lbak...@basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Wed, Apr 30, 2014 at 2:21 AM, Gavin Huang 
&gt; wrote:
&gt; &gt; Hi,
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; I know that Riak2 delivered a new feature of bucket type, buckets with
&gt; same
&gt; &gt; bucket type will have same bucket properties and different bucket type
&gt; can
&gt; &gt; have different bucket properties.
&gt; &gt; however, since Riak2 is still on it's beta version, so think may be I
&gt; should
&gt; &gt; wait for a while before stable version released, so i would stick with
&gt; 1.4.7
&gt; &gt; for now.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; however, since more than one application is using same riak cluster right
&gt; &gt; now, and different application need different storage engine, for example
&gt; &gt; application1 need leveldb, while another one application2 need to use
&gt; &gt; bitcask. so think it's better to use multi-backend in riak cluster.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; i can achieve that by change app.config:
&gt; &gt; {storage\_backend, riak\_kv\_multi\_backend},
&gt; &gt; %%{multi\_backend\_prefix\_list, [{&lt;&lt;"service1\_:"&gt;&gt;, be\_blocks}]},
&gt; &gt; {multi\_backend\_default, &lt;&lt;"be\_default"&gt;&gt;},
&gt; &gt; {multi\_backend, [
&gt; &gt; {&lt;&lt;"be\_default"&gt;&gt;, riak\_kv\_eleveldb\_backend, [
&gt; &gt; {max\_open\_files, 50},
&gt; &gt; {data\_root, "/var/lib/riak/leveldb"}
&gt; &gt; ]},
&gt; &gt; {&lt;&lt;"be\_blocks"&gt;&gt;, riak\_kv\_bitcask\_backend, [
&gt; &gt; {data\_root, "/var/lib/riak/bitcask"}
&gt; &gt; ]},
&gt; &gt; {&lt;&lt;"for\_service1"&gt;&gt;, riak\_kv\_bitcask\_backend, [
&gt; &gt; {data\_root, "/var/lib/riak/service1"}
&gt; &gt; ]},
&gt; &gt; {&lt;&lt;"for\_service2"&gt;&gt;, riak\_kv\_eleveldb\_backend, [
&gt; &gt; {data\_root, "/var/lib/riak/service2"}
&gt; &gt; ]}
&gt; &gt; ]},
&gt; &gt; and then:
&gt; &gt; curl -XPUT http://riak:8098/riak/manually\_created/ -d
&gt; &gt; '{"props":{"backend":"for\_service1"}}'
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; the problem is I could like to have riak automatically apply backend
&gt; setting
&gt; &gt; by the bucket name prefix, for example:
&gt; &gt; service1\_bucket11 would use &lt;&lt;"for\_service1"&gt;&gt; as backend, while
&gt; &gt; service2\_bucket21 would use &lt;&lt;"for\_service2"&gt;&gt; as backend.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; I know riakcs is using the similar mechanism from:
&gt; &gt;
&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riakcs/latest/cookbooks/configuration/Configuring-Riak/
&gt; &gt; {multi\_backend\_prefix\_list, [{&lt;&lt;"0b:"&gt;&gt;, be\_blocks}]},
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; but seems this does not work for me:
&gt; &gt; {multi\_backend\_prefix\_list, [{&lt;&lt;"service1"&gt;&gt;, &lt;&lt;"for\_service1"&gt;&gt;}]},
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; the newly created bucket did not use bitcask backend as expected, but
&gt; using
&gt; &gt; default leveldb.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; i'm not familiar with Erlang, can't read through the riak source code,
&gt; don't
&gt; &gt; why it does not work, or did i mis-understand how RiakCS achieve this?
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Thanks.
&gt; &gt; Gavin
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;
&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

