---
title: "Re: RiakTS TTL"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2016-11-01T22:36:44-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg17731"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg17729"
author_name: "Pavel Hardak"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2016-11-01T22:36:44-07:00
---


Hi Joe,

1. I am curious why you would need it. Can you please elaborate on the use
case?
2. In addition to Matthew response, please see
http://docs.basho.com/riak/ts/1.4.0/using/global-object-expiration
3. Do you refer to something like post-commit hook in Riak KV:
http://docs.basho.com/riak/kv/2.1.4/developing/usage/commit-hooks/ ?

Thanks,
Pavel



\*Pavel Hardak\* | Director of Product Management @ Basho


---------- Forwarded message ----------
&gt; From: Matthew Von-Maszewski 
&gt; Date: Tue, Nov 1, 2016 at 1:01 PM
&gt; Subject: Re: RiakTS TTL
&gt; To: Joe Olson 
&gt; Cc: riak-users 
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; 1. The global expiry module is an external C++ module that is open
&gt; source. There is no definition at this time for an Erlang callback, but
&gt; the design supports it. You can patch the open source code now.
&gt;
&gt; 2. The TTL has two components: when the record is written and number of
&gt; minutes until expiry. The write time goes into each record. The number of
&gt; minutes until expiry is loaded at start. A change to the global minutes
&gt; until expiry impacts the evaluation of all records. A subsequent release
&gt; will allow distinct TTL by table.
&gt;
&gt; 3. Not my area of the code.
&gt;
&gt; Matthew
&gt;
&gt; On Nov 1, 2016, at 3:46 PM, Joe Olson  wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Two questions about the RiakTS TTL functionality (and its future
&gt; direction):
&gt;
&gt; 1. Is it possible to replace the standard delete upon TTL expiry with a
&gt; user defined delete?
&gt; 2. Can the current global setting for the TTL timeout be changed? Will
&gt; that affect new records going forward?
&gt;
&gt; Bonus question:
&gt; 3. Are there any plans to implement general triggering in RiakTS?
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; \*Dorothy Pults - \*\*Sr. Director of Product Marketing\*
&gt; 425 435 8198
&gt; Bellevue, WA
&gt; www.basho.com
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

