---
title: "Re: Query on Riak Search in a cluster of 3 nodes behind ELB is giving	different result everytime"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-04-01T02:39:54-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15945"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15939"
author_name: "Michael Weibel"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-04-01T02:39:54-07:00
---


Hey Vitaly,

experienced the same issue recently (see
http://lists.basho.com/pipermail/riak-users\_lists.basho.com/2015-March/016972.html).

When you have a look at your now working solr instances admin pages, do you
have everywhere the index counts the same? (i.e. the numDocs, maxDocs,
deletedDocs)

Thanks,
Michael

2015-04-01 9:50 GMT+02:00 Vitaliy E &lt;13vitam...@gmail.com&gt;:

&gt; Hello everyone,
&gt;
&gt; I've just joined the list, and am a bit late to the party. Sorry about
&gt; that. Thought I would contribute an answer anyway.
&gt;
&gt; Santi, what is you n\_val?
&gt;
&gt; I observed the behavior you are describing on Riak 2.0.0 with n\_val=3 in
&gt; two cases:
&gt;
&gt; 1. One of the nodes was not part of the cluster although the cluster was
&gt; thinking it was. Don't ask me how that happened. Obviously, when a request
&gt; hit that node part of the entries could not be found there.
&gt;
&gt; 2. Look for indexing errors in Solr console and Riak logs. Each Riak node
&gt; has its own Solr "repository", so if an entry fails to be indexed on any of
&gt; them, search results will be inconsistent depending on which set of nodes
&gt; returns it. Let's say you have replicas on nodes A, B, and C. Entry X
&gt; failed to be indexed on A, entry Y failed to be indexed on A and B, and
&gt; entry Z was indexed OK on all nodes. Then you may get {X,Y,Z}, {X,Z}, or
&gt; {Z} as your search results.
&gt;
&gt; In our case the indexing failures were caused by disk/filesystem errors.
&gt;
&gt; Regards,
&gt; Vitaly
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

