---
title: "Re: Cross-Compile Riak for Embedded Device"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2017-02-14T02:47:07-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg17976"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg17973"
author_name: "Magnus Kessler"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2017-02-14T02:47:07-08:00
---


On 13 February 2017 at 16:06, Darshan Shah  wrote:

&gt; Our main usecase is to create a database in Embedded system to store value
&gt; received from one server.
&gt; For our usecase Key value based database is best suitable and we found
&gt; Riak is one of best for this.
&gt; So we want to cross compile Riak databse for Embedded system.
&gt;
&gt; On Fri, Feb 10, 2017, 3:46 PM Stephen Etheridge 
&gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Darshan,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Perhaps if you gave some more details of what you are trying to do I
&gt;&gt; might be able to help further?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Stephen
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
Hi Darshan,

If I understand you correctly, your embedded devices will locally store
data and will communicate with a central server, but not other peer
devices. Riak's strength lies in being a centralised distributed database
optimised for dealing with very large data sets. Riak installations
typically distribute the data set over a small(-ish) number of nodes to
achieve high availability and resilience.

In your use case I expect there to be a large number of embedded devices,
each responsible for a small amount of data. This is not a good fit for
Riak.

A quick search shows embeddable key-value stores, such as RocksDB [0],
unqlite [1], and others (\*), which you could use to store data locally in
your embedded devices. If you'd like to use Riak on the central server, I'd
recommend using one of the Riak client libraries [2] to transfer data
between the central server and your devices.

Kind Regards,

Magnus

(\*) The quoted embeddable DBs are examples only. I haven't personally used
them yet, and can't vouch for their suitability for your project.

[0]: http://rocksdb.org
[1]: http://unqlite.org
[2]: https://docs.basho.com/riak/kv/2.2.0/developing/client-libraries/

-- 
Magnus Kessler
Client Services Engineer
Basho Technologies Limited

Registered Office - 8 Lincoln’s Inn Fields London WC2A 3BP Reg 07970431
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

