---
title: "Re: [ANN] Riak 1.3 Released"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-02-21T08:02:14-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10180"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg10168"
author_name: "Simon Effenberg"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-02-21T08:02:14-08:00
---


Cool!

But now I see this WARNING:

WARNING: ulimit -n is 1024; 4096 is the recommended minimum

but I created a /etc/default/riak file setting ulimit -n to 30000 and
also a

cat /proc//limits shows the 30000

did I do something wrong?

Cheers,
Simon

On Thu, 21 Feb 2013 09:24:52 -0500
Tom Santero  wrote:

&gt; Here Ye! Here Ye!
&gt; 
&gt; The Basho Engineering team is thrilled to announced that Riak 1.3 is
&gt; official and ready for your production systems. Without further adieu:
&gt; 
&gt; - Complete release notes:
&gt; https://github.com/basho/riak/blob/1.3/RELEASE-NOTES.md
&gt; - 1.3 downloads and documentation:
&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riak/1.3.0/downloads/
&gt; 
&gt; If you've been following the commits or have read the release notes for the
&gt; first four RCs, you know this release is well worth the wait. Big ticket
&gt; features and fixes include Active Anti Entropy (AAE), MapReduce stability
&gt; and speed improvements, a refacing for Riak Control, LevelDB saw another
&gt; round of significant improvements, and much more. All told, we
&gt; fixed/resolved/merged more than 170 issues and PRs.
&gt; 
&gt; In addition to the release notes, we've got a blog post up on the Basho
&gt; Blog [1] with more details about 1.3. We're also doing a Riak 1.3 Webcast
&gt; on March 7th [2] for anyone who is interested in getting a more in-depth
&gt; look at the release.
&gt; 
&gt; 1.3 took a a little longer to get out the door than was planned, but it's
&gt; the most-advanced, battle-tested Riak we've ever released and we're proud
&gt; to ship it to you. Thanks for being a supportive and active community. Your
&gt; production usage, suggestions, comments, criticisms, code contributions,
&gt; and bug fixes made this possible.
&gt; 
&gt; Lastly, if you want to hear all about the future of Riak and hack alongside
&gt; fellow Riak Community members for a few days, come to RICON | EAST this May
&gt; in NYC [3].
&gt; 
&gt; Let us know if you have any questions about the release and thanks for
&gt; being a part of Riak.
&gt; 
&gt; Now, onto 1.4...
&gt; 
&gt; The Basho Team
&gt; twitter.com/basho
&gt; 
&gt; [1] http://basho.com/introducing-riak-1-3/
&gt; 
&gt; [2] http://info.basho.com/IntroToRiakMarch7.html
&gt; 
&gt; [3] http://ricon.io/east.html


-- 
Simon Effenberg | Site Ops Engineer | mobile.international GmbH
Fon: + 49-(0)30-8109 - 7173
Fax: + 49-(0)30-8109 - 7131

Mail: seffenb...@team.mobile.de
Web: www.mobile.de

Marktplatz 1 | 14532 Europarc Dreilinden | Germany


Geschäftsführer: Malte Krüger
HRB Nr.: 18517 P, Amtsgericht Potsdam
Sitz der Gesellschaft: Kleinmachnow 

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

