---
title: "Error while installing riak on ubuntu 12.04"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-07-08T06:48:07-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16279"
author_name: "Gopi Krishna"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-07-08T06:48:07-07:00
---


Hi,

I am trying to install riak1.4.7 on my ubuntu 12.04 machine.

I have installed otp\_src\_R15BO1 version.

erl shell is coming fine but when i try to install riak.

The below command is thrwoing me the error:

make rel

fatal: No names found, cannot describe anything.
./rebar get-deps
Uncaught error in rebar\_core: {'EXIT',
 {undef,
 [{crypto,start,[],[]},
 {rebar,run\_aux,2,[]},
 {rebar,main,1,[]},
 {escript,run,2,
 [{file,"escript.erl"},{line,727}]},
 {escript,start,1,
 [{file,"escript.erl"},{line,277}]},
 {init,start\_it,1,[]},
 {init,start\_em,1,[]}]}}
make: \*\*\* [deps] Error 1

I am also getting error in the erlang shell to make sure it is getting the
crypto file or not

Erlang R15B01 (erts-5.9.1) [source] [64-bit] [smp:4:4] [async-threads:0]
[hipe] [kernel-poll:false]

Eshell V5.9.1 (abort with ^G)
1&gt;
1&gt; l(crypto).
{error,on\_load\_failure}

=ERROR REPORT==== 8-Jul-2015::16:52:21 ===
Unable to load crypto library. Failed with error:
"load\_failed, Failed to load NIF library
/usr/local/lib/erlang/lib/crypto-2.1/priv/lib/crypto: 'libcrypto.so.10:
cannot open shared object file: No such file or directory'"
OpenSSL might not be installed on this system.

=ERROR REPORT==== 8-Jul-2015::16:52:21 ===
The on\_load function for module crypto returned {error,
 {load\_failed,
 "Failed to load NIF
library /usr/local/lib/erlang/lib/crypto-2.1/priv/lib/crypto:
'libcrypto.so.10: cannot open shared object file: No such file or
directory'"}}


Someone please suggest me to how to fix it.

-- 

Thanks & Regards,
J.Gopi Krishna
+91-8341452934,
www.lintelindia.com
Lintel Technologies Pvt. LTD,Hyderabad.

This message contains confidential information and is intended for
recipient. If you are not the intended recipient you are notified that
disclosing, copying, distributing or taking any action in reliance on the
contents of this information is strictly prohibited. E-mail transmission
cannot be guaranteed to be secure or error-free as information could be
intercepted, corrupted, lost, destroyed, arrive late or incomplete, or
contain viruses. The sender therefore does not accept liability for any
errors or omissions in the contents of this message, which arise as a
result of e-mail transmission. If verification is required please request a
hard-copy version.
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

