---
title: "Re: CS: Query path for storage/access statistics appears wrong?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-07-02T19:06:13-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14453"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14447"
author_name: "Toby Corkindale"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-07-02T19:06:13-07:00
---


On 3 July 2014 01:57, Hector Castro  wrote:
&gt; Hey Toby,
&gt;
&gt; Are you authenticating the request that uses query string parameters?

Hi Hector,
In both cases I am authenticating the request, using the AWS header method.
I noted that I needed to only do the auth hash based on the path, not
the query parameters, in order for it to succeed though. I just
assumed that was intentional as the AWS spec does indicate that too.
Toby


&gt; On Wed, Jul 2, 2014 at 1:23 AM, Toby Corkindale  wrote:
&gt;&gt; Hi,
&gt;&gt; Maybe I'm doing something wrong, but I find I can only access the Riak
&gt;&gt; CS storage/access information per-user by using the s3-compatible
&gt;&gt; path, not the REST API path -- even though I am connecting to the REST
&gt;&gt; API port.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; ie. To get the statistics, I am querying
&gt;&gt; http://SERVERNAME:8080/riak-cs/usage/USER-ID/b/STIME/ETIME
&gt;&gt; An actual URI generated this way would be:
&gt;&gt; /riak-cs/usage/ZAZ6\_VYSIE7QMYQRRHY3/b/20140528T000000Z/20140602T000000Z
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; If I try to use the proper API method, I consistently receive
&gt;&gt; "not\_requested" as the results.
&gt;&gt; The API URL is:
&gt;&gt; http://SERVERNAME:8080/riak-cs/usage/USER-ID?b&e=ETIME&s=STIME
&gt;&gt; An actual URI generated this way would be:
&gt;&gt; /riak-cs/usage/JEJ-XPZBSIKSU\_Z4EGPC?b&e=20140602T000000Z&s=20140528T000000Z
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Is this a known bug or should this be working (and I'm just doing it wrong?).
&gt;&gt; Current latest stable Riak - 1.4.9-1 from Basho Ubuntu repo.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Cheers,
&gt;&gt; Toby
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com



-- 
Turning and turning in the widening gyre
The falcon cannot hear the falconer
Things fall apart; the center cannot hold
Mere anarchy is loosed upon the world

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

