---
title: "Re: riak search java client - sql injection"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-03-23T11:44:45-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15920"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15919"
author_name: "Jason W"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-03-23T11:44:45-07:00
---


Thanks Chris. I meant the query injection. Was really looking for an api
that takes parametrized query in risk java client, do you know whether solr
provides that? It would not be a easy task to do a 100% secure santize
function, the above query is really just a simple use case.

Jason

On Mon, Mar 23, 2015 at 1:49 PM, Christopher Meiklejohn &lt;
cmeiklej...@basho.com&gt; wrote:

&gt;
&gt; &gt; On Mar 22, 2015, at 7:03 PM, Jason W  wrote:
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Hello,
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; I try to use the riak search java client, specifically the
&gt; Search.Builder class, like the following
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Search search = new Search.Builder("test", "\_yz\_rb:accounts AND email:"
&gt; + [user-email]).
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; "[user-email]" is what user entered in the login form, my question is
&gt; about sql injection, it seems like the java search client api doesn't
&gt; prevent sql injection, are there any other api/methods that I can use to
&gt; prevent this? Thank you
&gt;
&gt; Hello Jason,
&gt;
&gt; Search is not SQL; queries are specified in the Solr [1] query syntax so
&gt; they’re not vulnerable to a SQL injection attack, given the basis of a SQL
&gt; injection attack is to end a query and start a new one using unvalidated
&gt; syntax. While it’s not directly the same thing, in the same class of
&gt; attacks it’s possible for a user to add additional criteria to the query
&gt; given the way you’ve written your search query. I highly recommend you
&gt; sanitize your inputs before passing them to the query builder.
&gt;
&gt; - Chris
&gt;
&gt; [1] https://wiki.apache.org/solr/SolrQuerySyntax
&gt;
&gt; Christopher Meiklejohn
&gt; Senior Software Engineer
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; cmeiklej...@basho.com
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

