---
title: "Re: Riak stalls, leveldb backend"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-01-06T16:30:30-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15445"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15442"
author_name: "Drew Pirrone-Brusse"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-01-06T16:30:30-08:00
---


Hey all,

So, the long and short of it is that Riak doesn't handle objects
larger than 2Mb very well at all. We try to be pretty up-front about
this in the documentation (for example[1]) be we're also aware that
sometimes you need to store big objects. Riak CS was actually created
to deal with these exact performance issues, so I'd highly recommend
you take a look at it, if your usecase requires large objects.

When talking specifically about LevelDB, we have some useful
implementation details[2] in our docs. Take special note of the file
sizes and total size limits for Level-0 and Level-1---each file is
limited to 2Mb, and Level-1 will only store up to 10Mb. The disk I/O
required to flush Level-0 and Level-1 completely so that you can write
-- and then compact -- a &gt;10Mb file (as is your case, Andy) adds up
pretty quickly.

I hope that helps.
Best,
-Drew

[1] - 
http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/dev/using/application-guide/#What-Kind-of-Data-Are-You-Storing-
[2] - 
http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/ops/advanced/backends/leveldb/#Implementation-Details

On Tue, Jan 6, 2015 at 6:01 AM, Sorin Manole  wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Hey Andy,
&gt;
&gt; We had the same issue few days ago. We were getting timeouts when trying to 
&gt; read a key from riak.
&gt;
&gt; Also we were seeing in the logs a warning about reading/writing a large 
&gt; object. In our case that object was first read from riak and after written 
&gt; back. It was that big (17Mb) because of some load testing that we did.
&gt;
&gt; We deleted the object and we didn't experience timeouts anymore.
&gt;
&gt; We tried to repro the issue, so we can be sure it was this and we posted a 
&gt; 20Mb json to the same key and the timeouts came back again, deleted the 20Mb 
&gt; object and everything worked fine again.
&gt;
&gt; I don't know why this is happening but we can say that this was the issue for 
&gt; our timeouts.
&gt;
&gt; Maybe someone has a better understanding on this.. I'd like to be in the loop 
&gt; of this conversation if possible.
&gt;
&gt; Thanks!
&gt; Sorin.
&gt;
&gt; On 5 January 2015 at 18:07, Andy Pellett  wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi all,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I've been experiencing stalls where riak won't return any data (queries time 
&gt;&gt; out) with my riak cluster. Here are some basic details:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; - 8 nodes
&gt;&gt; - riak 1.4.10 (upgraded from 1.4.6 -&gt; 1.4.8 -&gt; 1.4.10)
&gt;&gt; - leveldb backend
&gt;&gt; - n\_val is 2
&gt;&gt; - allow\_mult is false
&gt;&gt; - ec2 i2.2xlarge boxes (8 cores, 61gb ram, 800gb disk space)
&gt;&gt; - about 33% disk space utilization per node
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; The riak cluster will stall for as long as a few minutes at a time, but will 
&gt;&gt; otherwise work as expected for hours. There doesn't seem to be an obvious 
&gt;&gt; pattern as to when the stalls happen.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; My first thought was that the stalls may be related to AAE, but I've 
&gt;&gt; disabled that via 'riak attach' and the settings file. Sidenote, I still see 
&gt;&gt; messages like:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; 2015-01-05 12:24:04.666 [info] 
&gt;&gt; &lt;0.574.0&gt;@riak\_kv\_entropy\_manager:perhaps\_log\_throttle\_change:826 Changing 
&gt;&gt; AAE throttle from 0 -&gt; 10 msec/key, based on maximum vnode mailbox size 209 
&gt;&gt; from 'riak-user@riak-host'
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; which makes me question whether AAE is actually turned off.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Now I'm leaning towards leveldb compactions being the issue. What can I do 
&gt;&gt; to verify this is the issue, and how can I fix it?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I see log messages about large objects:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; 2015-01-05 16:11:28.046 [warning] 
&gt;&gt; &lt;0.6398.0&gt;@riak\_kv\_vnode:encode\_and\_put\_no\_sib\_check:1830 Writing very large 
&gt;&gt; object (11307735 bytes) to &lt;&lt;"BucketName"&gt;&gt;/&lt;&lt;"keys\_1420466400"&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Could these be causing longer-running compactions, or more frequent 
&gt;&gt; compactions?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks for reading,
&gt;&gt; Andy
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Sorin Manole
&gt; Senior Software Engineer, Trustev
&gt; m:+353 86 051 2658 | e:sorin.man...@trustev.com | w:www.trustev.com| a: 
&gt; Trustev Ltd, 2100 Airport Business Park, Cork, Ireland.
&gt;
&gt; This message is for the named person's use only. If you received this message 
&gt; in error, please immediately delete it and all copies and notify the sender. 
&gt; You must not, directly or indirectly, use, disclose, distribute, print, or 
&gt; copy any part of this message if you are not the intended recipient. Any 
&gt; views expressed in this message are those of the individual sender and not 
&gt; Trustev Ltd. Trustev is registered in Ireland No. 516425 and trades from 2100 
&gt; Cork Airport Business Park, Cork, Ireland.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

