---
title: "RE: Framework to Migrate data from SQL Server and from DB2 to RIAK	for Java application"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-06-30T22:25:25-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14429"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14425"
author_name: "sangeetha.subraman...@gtnexus.com"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-06-30T22:25:25-07:00
---


Thanks a lot

-- Sangeetha

From: Dmitri Zagidulin [mailto:dzagidu...@basho.com]
Sent: 30 June 2014 19:21
To: sangeetha.subraman...@gtnexus.com
Cc: riak-users
Subject: Re: Framework to Migrate data from SQL Server and from DB2 to RIAK for 
Java application

Sangeetha,
As Bryan mentioned, above, the first thing you want to double-check, when 
migrating your blob type column to Riak, is the typical (and max) blob size.
If your objects are less than 1mb, then storing in Riak should be fine. If the 
max object size runs larger than 1mb, you should store those blobs in Riak CS 
http://docs.basho.com/riakcs/latest/ (it's built on top of Riak, and serves 
exactly this use case).
As far as migrating a column or a table to Riak, we do not have any SQL 
migration tool - you would have to write the migrating code yourself.
The main thing to keep in mind, when loading massive amounts of data into Riak, 
is to take advantage of Riak's parallelism. Spin up multiple worker threads to 
issue puts, and be sure to take advantage of the Java client's connection 
pooling.
There is some good sample Java code for loading objects into Riak in the Riak 
Data Migrator repo ( https://github.com/basho-labs/riak-data-migrator ),

Take a look at 
https://github.com/basho-labs/riak-data-migrator/blob/master/src/main/java/com/basho/proserv/datamigrator/io/ThreadedRiakObjectWriter.java
and 
https://github.com/basho-labs/riak-data-migrator/blob/master/src/main/java/com/basho/riak/pbc/RiakObjectIO.java
for some example code.
Thanks!
Dmitri

On Mon, Jun 30, 2014 at 3:22 AM, Sangeetha 
&gt; 
wrote:
Hi there,

We are planning to migrate data from SQL Server and DB2 to RIAK.

Right now we have a table with a column type blob. Querying this table is
causing huge traffic.
Is moving the column alone to RIAK is better or moving the table as whole to
RIAK is better. What is the best way to do this ?

We develop java application to access the RDBMS. Could someone tell me on
what is the best approach to migrate data from SQL Server and also from DB2
to RIAK.
Is there any common approach which can be used both DBs ? Please let me know

Thanks
Sangeetha




--
View this message in context: 
http://riak-users.197444.n3.nabble.com/Framework-to-Migrate-data-from-SQL-Server-and-from-DB2-to-RIAK-for-Java-application-tp4031318.html
Sent from the Riak Users mailing list archive at Nabble.com.

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

