---
title: "Re: Yokozuna 0.8.0 release on omnios - no Yokozuna, no Riak Control"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-08-14T16:00:38-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12041"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12040"
author_name: "Dave Martorana"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-08-14T16:00:38-07:00
---


Here is my build (make) log

https://gist.github.com/themartorana/6e9f8e49a50b70f56333

and "make rel" log

https://gist.github.com/themartorana/13dcb72306c9ab880c9f

using the 0.8.0 .tar.gz download of Yokozuna.

Thanks,

Dave


On Wed, Aug 14, 2013 at 6:54 PM, Dave Martorana  wrote:

&gt; Hi Chris,
&gt;
&gt; I've built from the "official" Yokozuna 0.8.0 download, as well
&gt; as rz-yz-merge-1.4.0 and rz-yz-merge-master branches off of the riak repo.
&gt;
&gt; When I build from master, Riak Control works fine.
&gt;
&gt; Thanks!
&gt;
&gt; Dave
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Wed, Aug 14, 2013 at 6:52 PM, Christopher Meiklejohn &lt;
&gt; cmeiklej...@basho.com&gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi Dave,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Can you provide the tag, or SHA, that you've built Riak from?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; - Chris
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; Christopher Meiklejohn
&gt;&gt; Software Engineer
&gt;&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Wednesday, August 14, 2013 at 3:45 PM, Dave Martorana wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; Hi all,
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; I have Riak building on omnios, with Erlang R15B02, and Oracle JDK
&gt;&gt; 1.7.0\_25.
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; Everything appears to be building just fine. However... even though I
&gt;&gt; have Yokozuna and Riak Control enabled in my app.config, neither are able
&gt;&gt; to be used or - it seems - start up. I can confirm that kv is working fine.
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; app.config: https://gist.github.com/themartorana/eb503f1d7fca798fc6c3
&gt;&gt; &gt; console.log: https://gist.github.com/themartorana/7c517c0ba5549c35540a
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; Oddly, console.log doesn't show any mention of Riak Control. It does
&gt;&gt; show the startup line for Solr at the end. However, the webapp only has the
&gt;&gt; following links:
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; riak\_kv\_wm\_buckets
&gt;&gt; &gt; riak\_kv\_wm\_buckets
&gt;&gt; &gt; riak\_kv\_wm\_counter
&gt;&gt; &gt; riak\_kv\_wm\_index
&gt;&gt; &gt; riak\_kv\_wm\_keylist
&gt;&gt; &gt; riak\_kv\_wm\_link\_walker
&gt;&gt; &gt; riak\_kv\_wm\_link\_walker
&gt;&gt; &gt; riak\_kv\_wm\_mapred
&gt;&gt; &gt; riak\_kv\_wm\_object
&gt;&gt; &gt; riak\_kv\_wm\_object
&gt;&gt; &gt; riak\_kv\_wm\_ping
&gt;&gt; &gt; riak\_kv\_wm\_props
&gt;&gt; &gt; riak\_kv\_wm\_stats
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; There is no admin/control, and no yz. Any attempt to link to /yz/\* or
&gt;&gt; /admin results in a 404.
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; I'm at a bit of a loss. There is nothing in error.log or crash.log.
&gt;&gt; yokozuna.jar builds fine. Riak Control appears to be built fine.
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; Any thoughts?
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; Cheers,
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; Dave
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; P.S. - I have also built the git rz-yz-merge-1.4.0 branch of the riak
&gt;&gt; repo on github just to be sure. Same result. Building Riak from master -
&gt;&gt; while obviously not having Yokozuna - does have Riak Control enabled.
&gt;&gt; Thanks!
&gt;&gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
&gt;&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

