---
title: "Re: Cleaning old indexes"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-12-11T10:30:01-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15353"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15190"
author_name: "Luke Bakken"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-12-11T10:30:01-08:00
---


Hi Geoff,

Are you having issues removing the old "global" index? You should be
able to delete it this way:

curl -XDELETE riak-host:8098/search/index/global

&gt; Is it safe to mess with anything within the Solr admin interface (is there a 
&gt; possibility of corruption from Riak -&gt; Solr, or vice versa)?

It's best to leave things alone in production as Riak expects to be
the sole source of control for Solr

--
Luke Bakken
Engineer / CSE
lbak...@basho.com


On Tue, Nov 18, 2014 at 3:36 AM, Geoff Garbers  wrote:
&gt; Hey all.
&gt;
&gt; When our company started out with Riak, there were some choices made with
&gt; regards to indexing that are now coming back to bite us. Currently,
&gt; everything in our Riak cluster is being indexed (dynamicField \* indexed as
&gt; text\_general).
&gt;
&gt; We've learnt a lot about Riak and Solr since then, and we're in the process
&gt; now of trying to fix this; indexing the fields we need with the correct data
&gt; type.
&gt;
&gt; Previously, we had a single search index (called "global") - and everything
&gt; was indexed under this. This is now split out into separate indexes
&gt; ("contacts", "lists", "messages", etc); and I've tried to re-index
&gt; everything - but I don't seem to be able to get rid of the old indexes.
&gt;
&gt; There are a few things I've tried; and they don't seem to help:
&gt;
&gt; 1. Streaming all keys in all buckets, fetching the object, and then putting
&gt; the object.
&gt; 2. Streaming all keys in all buckets, fetching the object, deleting the
&gt; object, and then putting the object back with the same key.
&gt; 2. Unloading the core in the Solr admin interface (it seems like it gets
&gt; re-populated by Riak again).
&gt;
&gt; In summary, this is what I'm struggling to understand:
&gt;
&gt; 1. Is it safe to mess with anything within the Solr admin interface (is
&gt; there a possibility of corruption from Riak -&gt; Solr, or vice versa)?
&gt; 2. How do I go about cleaning out old index data, versus simply (what seems
&gt; to be) creating new index data, without clearing out the old data?
&gt;
&gt; Any help will really be appreciated!
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; Geoff
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

