---
title: "Re: Riak 2.0.0 RC1"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-07-21T14:40:00-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14520"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14519"
author_name: "Alex De la rosa"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-07-21T14:40:00-07:00
---


Awesome! Can't wait to try it! What about the python client for Riak 2.0? I
remember testing the actual version and still have many issues and
non-workable new features (like counters, sets, maps, etc.)

Thanks!
Alex


On Mon, Jul 21, 2014 at 11:34 PM, Jared Morrow  wrote:

&gt; Riak-Users,
&gt;
&gt; Everyone at Basho is extremely happy to announce the public availability
&gt; of Riak 2.0.0 RC. As a release candidate, we do not recommend using it in
&gt; production, but it should be considered feature and API complete for Riak
&gt; 2.0 final. We reserve the right to make changes for any data-loss or severe
&gt; performance issues found post-RC, but these will not affect the API.
&gt;
&gt; This is our most ambitious release, with major new features throughout the
&gt; product. With that in mind, please take plenty of time to read through the
&gt; Release Notes. There are some important considerations regarding upgrades,
&gt; known issues, and packaging. The Release Notes are still a work-in-progress
&gt; and will be continually updated as we march towards 2.0 final. We have made
&gt; a lot of progress on our docs site  for 2.0, but
&gt; still have work to do before final release. We appreciate your patience.
&gt;
&gt; -
&gt;
&gt; \*Release Notes\*:
&gt; https://github.com/basho/riak/blob/2.0/RELEASE-NOTES.md
&gt; -
&gt;
&gt; \*Downloads\*: http://docs.basho.com/riak/2.0.0/downloads/
&gt; Note: There will be minor tweaks to the download site to show the
&gt; labels for SuSE Enterprise Linux and Ubuntu 14.04 packages
&gt; -
&gt;
&gt; \*APT/YUM Repos\* (see release-notes re: this change):
&gt; https://packagecloud.io/basho/riak/install Note: If you are
&gt; downloading the files directly, use our docs site. For apt/yum repo
&gt; install, use packagecloud.
&gt;
&gt; Thanks to everyone in our community,
&gt; -Team Basho
&gt; ​
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

