---
title: "Re: distribution of data among riak cluster physical nodes"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-10-14T11:09:48-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12623"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12608"
author_name: "John Daily"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-10-14T11:09:48-07:00
---


Responses inline.

On Oct 11, 2013, at 7:10 PM, kzhang  wrote:

&gt; I read the documentation again
&gt; (http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/dev/references/http/fetch-object/).
&gt; 
&gt; r - (read quorum) how many replicas need to agree when retrieving the object
&gt; (default is defined by the bucket)

Not agree, necessarily, but how many need to respond before an answer is given 
to the client.

&gt; pr - how many primary replicas need to be online when doing the read
&gt; (default is defined by the bucket)

Again, how many need to respond.

&gt; basic\_quorum - whether to return early in some failure cases (eg. when r=1
&gt; and you get 2 errors and a success basic\_quorum=true would return an error)
&gt; (default is defined by the bucket)

&gt; notfound\_ok - whether to treat notfounds as successful reads for the
&gt; purposes of R (default is defined by the bucket)
&gt; 

Correct.


The various notfound\_ok/basic\_quorum/R combinations are captured in a table 
here: http://basho.com/riaks-config-behaviors-part-3/

&gt; If I have:
&gt; 
&gt; r = 1
&gt; notfound\_ok=true
&gt; basic\_quorum = true
&gt; 
&gt; does the client get notfound after 1 reply (since notfound\_ok=true and r =
&gt; 1) or after 2 replies (since basic\_quorum = true)?
&gt; 

Client will get notfound after 1 reply.


&gt; Or if I have:
&gt; 
&gt; r = 1
&gt; notfound\_ok=false
&gt; basic\_quorum = true
&gt; 
&gt; the client gets notfound if the first two replies are notfound? if the first
&gt; reply is found, the client gets found? if the first reply is notfound, the
&gt; second is found, does the client get found, or have to wait for the third
&gt; vnode (in my environment, N=3) to reply?

notfound will be returned only if both servers return notfound, and the request 
will not wait for a 3rd server in any sequence of events.

&gt; 
&gt; In the next setup:
&gt; 
&gt; r = 1
&gt; notfound\_ok=false
&gt; basic\_quorum = false
&gt; 
&gt; only when all three replies are notfound, then the client gets notfound?
&gt; otherwise, it is found.

Correct.

&gt; 
&gt; The last one:
&gt; 
&gt; r = 1
&gt; notfound\_ok=true
&gt; basic\_quorum = false
&gt; 
&gt; which is the default. if the first reply is found, then client gets found.
&gt; if the first reply is notfound, clients gets notfound. 

Correct.

-John


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

