---
title: "Re: last_write_wins"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-01-30T15:01:30-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13547"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13541"
author_name: "Eric Redmond"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-01-30T15:01:30-08:00
---


For clarity, I was responding to Jason's assertion that Riak shouldn't be used 
as a cache, not to your specific issue, Edgar.

Eric

On Jan 30, 2014, at 2:54 PM, Edgar Veiga  wrote:

&gt; Hi!
&gt; 
&gt; I think that you are making some kind of confusion here... I'm not using riak 
&gt; for cache purposes, thats exactly the opposite! Riak is my end persistence 
&gt; system, I need to store the documents in a strong, secure, available and 
&gt; consistent place. That's riak.
&gt; 
&gt; It's like I've said before, just make an analogy with the linux file cache 
&gt; system. Node.js workers simulate that in-memory cache, php applications write 
&gt; and read from them and when something is dirty, it's persisted to riak...
&gt; 
&gt; Best regards
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On 30 January 2014 22:26, Eric Redmond  wrote:
&gt; Actually people use Riak as a distributed cache all the time. In fact, many 
&gt; customers use it exclusively as a cache system. Not all backends write to 
&gt; disk. Riak supports a main memory backend[1], complete with size limits and 
&gt; TTL.
&gt; 
&gt; Eric
&gt; 
&gt; [1]: http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/ops/advanced/backends/memory/
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Jan 30, 2014, at 1:48 PM, Jason Campbell  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; I'm not sure Riak is the best fit for this. Riak is great for applications 
&gt;&gt; where it is the source of data, and has very strong consistency when used in 
&gt;&gt; this way. You are using it as a cache, where Riak will be significantly 
&gt;&gt; slower than other cache solutions. Especially since you say that each 
&gt;&gt; worker will have a set of documents it is responsible for. Something like a 
&gt;&gt; local memcache or redis would likely suit this use case just as well, but do 
&gt;&gt; it much faster with less overhead.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Riak will guarantee 3 writes to disk (by default), where something like 
&gt;&gt; memcache or redis will stay in memory, and if local, won't have network 
&gt;&gt; latency either. In the worst case where a node goes offline, the real data 
&gt;&gt; can be pulled from the backend again, so it isn't a big deal. It will also 
&gt;&gt; simplify your application, because node.js can always request from cache and 
&gt;&gt; not worry about the speed, instead of maintaining it's own cache layer.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; I'm as happy as the next person on this list to see Riak being used for all 
&gt;&gt; sorts of uses, but I believe in the right tool for the right job. Unless 
&gt;&gt; there is something I don't understand, Riak is probably the wrong tool. It 
&gt;&gt; will work, but there is other software that will work much better.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; I hope this helps,
&gt;&gt; Jason Campbell
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; ----- Original Message -----
&gt;&gt; From: "Edgar Veiga" 
&gt;&gt; To: "Russell Brown" 
&gt;&gt; Cc: "riak-users" 
&gt;&gt; Sent: Friday, 31 January, 2014 3:20:42 AM
&gt;&gt; Subject: Re: last\_write\_wins
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; I'll try to explain this the best I can, although it's a simples 
&gt;&gt; architecture I'm not describing it in my native language :) 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; I have a set of node.js workers (64 for now) that serve as a 
&gt;&gt; cache/middleware layer for a dozen of php applications. Each worker deals 
&gt;&gt; with a set of documents (it's not a distributed cache system). Each worker 
&gt;&gt; updates the documents in memory, and tags them as dirty (just like OS file 
&gt;&gt; cache), and from time to time (for now, it's a 5 seconds window interval), a 
&gt;&gt; persister module will deal with the persistence of those dirty documents to 
&gt;&gt; riak. 
&gt;&gt; If the document isn't in memory, it will be fetched from riak. 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; If you want document X, you need to ask to the corresponding worker dealing 
&gt;&gt; with it. Two different workers, don't deal with the same document. 
&gt;&gt; That way we can guarantee that there will be no concurrent writes to riak. 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Best Regards, 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On 30 January 2014 10:46, Russell Brown &lt; russell.br...@me.com &gt; wrote: 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On 30 Jan 2014, at 10:37, Edgar Veiga &lt; edgarmve...@gmail.com &gt; wrote: 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Also, 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Using last\_write\_wins = true, do I need to always send the vclock while on a 
&gt;&gt; PUT request? In the official documention it says that riak will look only at 
&gt;&gt; the timestamp of the requests. 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Ok, from what you’ve said it sounds like you are always wanting to replace 
&gt;&gt; what is at a key with the new information you are putting. If that is the 
&gt;&gt; case, then you have the perfect use case for LWW=true. And indeed, you do 
&gt;&gt; not need to pass a vclock with your put request. And it sounds like there is 
&gt;&gt; no need for you to fetch-before-put since that is only to get context 
&gt;&gt; /resolve siblings. Curious about your use case if you can share more. 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Cheers 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Russell 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Best regards, 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On 29 January 2014 10:29, Edgar Veiga &lt; edgarmve...@gmail.com &gt; wrote: 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Hi Russel, 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; No, it doesn't depend. It's always a new value. 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Best regards 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On 29 January 2014 10:10, Russell Brown &lt; russell.br...@me.com &gt; wrote: 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On 29 Jan 2014, at 09:57, Edgar Veiga &lt; edgarmve...@gmail.com &gt; wrote: 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; tl;dr 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; If I guarantee that the same key is only written with a 5 second interval, 
&gt;&gt; is last\_write\_wins=true profitable? 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; It depends. Does the value you write depend in anyway on the value you read, 
&gt;&gt; or is it always that you are just getting a totally new value that replaces 
&gt;&gt; what is in Riak (regardless what is in Riak)? 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On 27 January 2014 23:25, Edgar Veiga &lt; edgarmve...@gmail.com &gt; wrote: 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Hi there everyone! 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; I would like to know, if my current application is a good use case to set 
&gt;&gt; last\_write\_wins to true. 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Basically I have a cluster of node.js workers reading and writing to riak. 
&gt;&gt; Each node.js worker is responsible for a set of keys, so I can guarantee 
&gt;&gt; some kind of non distributed cache... 
&gt;&gt; The real deal here is that the writing operation is not run evertime an 
&gt;&gt; object is changed but each 5 seconds in a "batch insertion/update" style. 
&gt;&gt; This brings the guarantee that the same object cannot be write to riak at 
&gt;&gt; the same time, not event at the same seconds, there's always a 5 second 
&gt;&gt; window between each insertion/update. 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; That said, is it profitable to me if I set last\_write\_wins to true? I've 
&gt;&gt; been facing some massive writting delays under high loads and it would be 
&gt;&gt; nice if I have some kind of way to tune riak. 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Thanks a lot and keep up the good work! 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ 
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list 
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com 
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; 

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

