---
title: "Re: Riak KV evolution"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2016-10-04T07:53:03-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg17685"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg17684"
author_name: "Ricardo Mayerhofer"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2016-10-04T07:53:03-07:00
---


Thanks for your response Charlie! Riak KV is a great product, but as any
other product it must evolve to keep ahead of its competitors.

Glad to hear that improvements are coming :)

On Tue, Oct 4, 2016 at 10:18 AM, Charlie Voiselle 
wrote:

&gt; Ricardo:
&gt;
&gt; Thank you for your question, and I want to reassure you that Riak KV is
&gt; still very much under active development. Work that is being done in the
&gt; Riak TS codebase is being used to improve Riak KV where it applies. Riak KV
&gt; 2.2 is coming soon and will include these new features:
&gt;
&gt; - Global Object TTL in eLevelDB
&gt; - LZ4 Compression in eLevelDB
&gt; - Debian 8 and Ubuntu 16 support
&gt; - Switches to disable certain operations in Riak (Key Listing, 2i,
&gt; Search)
&gt; - HyperLogLog Data Type
&gt;
&gt; We have also been working to enhance performance and pay-down technical
&gt; debt in the product. Some examples of this are:
&gt;
&gt; - Inconsistent hashing of equivalent objects with AAE
&gt; - Riak Search performance optimizations
&gt; - Upgrading Riak Search's internal Solr version to 4.10.4
&gt;
&gt; As to the future, while we don't provide public roadmaps, some of the
&gt; themes coming in Riak will be:
&gt;
&gt; - Advanced data lifecycle management
&gt; - Enhancements to Multi-data Center Replication
&gt;
&gt; I sincerely appreciate your feedback.
&gt;
&gt; Regards,
&gt; Charlie Voiselle
&gt; Product Manager, Riak KV and Clients
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Oct 3, 2016, at 1:34 PM, Ricardo Mayerhofer 
&gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Hi everyone,
&gt; Despite seeing new components being added to Basho data solutions, which
&gt; is great (e.g. Riak TS) I wonder about Riak KV evolution.
&gt;
&gt; Since 2013 there's no major release of Riak KV and not many features were
&gt; added since then. Is Riak KV still a priority to Basho?
&gt;
&gt; Some features that I miss:
&gt;
&gt; - TTL per bucket or per key,
&gt; - Secondary index in Bitcask or TTL in LevelDB.
&gt; - Be able to drop an entire bucket.
&gt;
&gt; Is there a Roadmap of Riak KV or a list of features coming?
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Ricardo Mayerhofer
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;


-- 
Ricardo Mayerhofer
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

