---
title: "Re: Build-in Erlang shell."
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-10-15T09:17:05-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12634"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12633"
author_name: "Jared Morrow"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-10-15T09:17:05-07:00
---


A friendly coworker pointed out I made a mistake in my reply, I was
thinking of connecting to remote nodes not local nodes. You don't need to
do RPC calls with `riak attach`.

Sorry about that.


On Tue, Oct 15, 2013 at 9:57 AM, Jared Morrow  wrote:

&gt; The erlang shell found with riak attach is a remote shell. You can make
&gt; RPC calls into the Riak node from there. If you look at nodetool found in
&gt; your install it can give you examples on how to use Erlang’s RPC call
&gt; mechanism. We don’t typically recommend people do that as a regular
&gt; practice though. We use it mostly for debugging and adjusting settings when
&gt; problems arise. We do have erlang clients though, and their links /
&gt; documentation can be found on our docs site:
&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/dev/using/libraries/
&gt;
&gt; If you have specific examples of what you have tried and what hasn’t
&gt; worked, we’ll be sure and help you get things straight.
&gt;
&gt; Hope that helped,
&gt; -Jared
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Tue, Oct 15, 2013 at 8:30 AM, Victor wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi, I’m curious what Erlang shell within riak is used for (one which
&gt;&gt; appears with “riak attach” command) and if cluster operator would be able
&gt;&gt; to use it to make small queries without need to build client application?
&gt;&gt; And is there some kind of documentation for it? I’ve tried to use same
&gt;&gt; functions as Erlang client assuming that this shell is just build-in
&gt;&gt; interface; however, it throw undefined function exception at me, so
&gt;&gt; probably I was wrong. \*\*\*\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

