---
title: "Re: Links, orphaned"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-10-06T20:14:59-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12521"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12520"
author_name: "Alex Rice"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-10-06T20:14:59-07:00
---


Eric- thanks for this! I had no idea that Links were not recommended
for new deployments, so glad I asked on here :)

Alex

On Sun, Oct 6, 2013 at 6:19 PM, Eric Redmond  wrote:
&gt;
&gt; On Oct 6, 2013 4:35 PM, "Alex Rice"  wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi all, unable to find these in the Riak docs
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; 1) Can someone point me at directions for cleanup of orphaned Links
&gt;&gt; after an object is Deleted from Riak. Post-commit hooks or something?
&gt;&gt; I really hope I dont have to learn Erlang just to clean up bad links
&gt;&gt; after deleting objects!
&gt;
&gt; There aren't any docs for that particular case. In fact, this is yet another
&gt; example of why we no longer recommend using Links at all.
&gt;
&gt; If you're just beginning to design a production Riak model I'd recommend
&gt; investigating alternative models that can leverage direct key lookups, or
&gt; 2i, or yokozuna.
&gt;
&gt;&gt; 2) Are links stored in key space or value space, or somewhere else?
&gt;&gt; (thinking saving memory with Bitcask backend) When viewing links with
&gt;&gt; the rekon tool, the paths look a bit verbose, prefixed with "/bucket"
&gt;&gt; etc. So I was just wondering if they use more memory with bitcask.
&gt;
&gt; Link data is metadata, so they're stored along with the value.
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

