---
title: "Re: WARNING: All of 'riak@10.1.42.11' replicas will be lost"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-04-14T15:39:01-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10878"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg10725"
author_name: "Mark Phillips"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-04-14T15:39:01-07:00
---


Queued for improvement:

https://github.com/basho/basho\_docs/issues/324

Thanks, Elias.

Mark


On Fri, Apr 5, 2013 at 3:07 PM, Elias Levy  wrote:
&gt; Thanks for the clarification. May want to amend the node rename doc page
&gt; (http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/cookbooks/Renaming-Nodes/) to clarify
&gt; this warning does not apply. It gave me pause.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Fri, Apr 5, 2013 at 3:04 PM, Alexander Moore 
&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; In that case you wouldn't actually lose any data, since the data
&gt;&gt; directories would be there the whole time.
&gt;&gt; The force-replace command will always give that warning though.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt; Alex
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Fri, Apr 5, 2013 at 5:07 PM, Elias Levy 
&gt;&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; On Fri, Apr 5, 2013 at 1:51 PM, Alexander Moore 
&gt;&gt;&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; It's referring to the vnode replicas on the node you are replacing.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Doing a force-replace reassigns all that nodes partitions without handing
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; them off, so the replicas on that node are "lost". However, since riak
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; replicates to 'N' physical nodes, there should be other replicas of your
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; data.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; It will take a repair to replicate the data to the new node though.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Alex,
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Thanks for the reply. But I am merely doing a force-replace to rename a
&gt;&gt;&gt; node, meaning that all that node's data is still on disk, I should expect no
&gt;&gt;&gt; data loss on the node. Is that correct?
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Elias Levy
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

