---
title: "Re: Javascript MapReduce fails Erlang succeeds"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-08-16T01:38:57-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12060"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12059"
author_name: "Doug Read"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-08-16T01:38:57-07:00
---


No problem.

Riak 1.3.1
Have reproduced the error on 1.3.1 Mac osx and 1.4.1 on Ubuntu. I am on
my phone now I'll get the build and package versions.

That is the erlang mapreduce, that has always worked it is the javascript
version that fails. The one I originally posted but basically any
javascript mapreduce which takes that bucket key as input.

On Friday, August 16, 2013, Christopher Meiklejohn wrote:

&gt; Hi Doug,
&gt;
&gt; First, my apologies. I confused two email responses I was writing, and
&gt; that's why my previous e-mail was a bit out of context.
&gt;
&gt; I've loaded your backup file into a locally built cluster here off of the
&gt; Riak 1.2 branch, but I'm still unable to reproduce the issue using the
&gt; following map/reduce command:
&gt;
&gt; curl -XPOST http://localhost:8098/mapred -H 'Content-Type:
&gt; application/json' -d '{"inputs":[ [ "aaaaaaaa-50d7-4536-9048-87ef2e48ddda",
&gt; "key\_5ad26d0d-4d28-40ca-afcb-1c9895cc5c71" ] ],
&gt; "query":[{"map":{"language":"erlang","module":"riak\_kv\_mapreduce","function":"map\_object\_value"}}
&gt; ] }'
&gt;
&gt; Can you please provide which operating system, build, and package version
&gt; of Riak you are running?
&gt;
&gt; - Chris
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Christopher Meiklejohn
&gt; Software Engineer
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Friday, August 16, 2013 at 1:23 AM, Christopher Meiklejohn wrote:
&gt;
&gt; &gt; Hi Doug,
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Can you provide more information as to how you build the image with
&gt; Vagrant so I can try to reproduce it? The configuration alone isn't going
&gt; to be enough as this appears to be a systems related issue.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; - Chris
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; --
&gt; &gt; Christopher Meiklejohn
&gt; &gt; Software Engineer
&gt; &gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; On Friday, August 16, 2013 at 1:20 AM, Doug Read wrote:
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; Hi Chris,
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; I made a riak-admin backup of the key which reproduces the issue. I
&gt; was wondering if you could give me some direction of how to debug the issue.
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; thanks
&gt; &gt; &gt; doug
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; On Thu, Aug 15, 2013 at 3:41 PM, Chris Meiklejohn &lt;
&gt; cmeiklej...@basho.com (mailto:cmeiklej...@basho.com)&gt; wrote:
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; The best guess I have at this point is probably something related to
&gt; character encoding, but without a reproduction case, I'm not able to debug
&gt; it any further.
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; Good luck with the upgrade tonight!
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; - Chris
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; On Thu, Aug 15, 2013 at 3:39 PM, Doug Read  doug.r...@qnary.com)&gt; wrote:
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; I redirected the output of curl into a file on an ubuntu box. I am
&gt; upgrading the cluster to 1.4.1 tonight. To your point I PUT the value into
&gt; the key locally (3 node cluster) and couldn't reproduce either. Also i am
&gt; turning on the java vm logging.
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; On Thu, Aug 15, 2013 at 3:33 PM, Chris Meiklejohn &lt;
&gt; cmeiklej...@basho.com (mailto:cmeiklej...@basho.com)&gt; wrote:
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; Hi Doug,
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; I've configured a Riak 1.2 cluster, and run the aforementioned
&gt; map-reduce job in Erlang and I can't trigger the crash. I'm getting the
&gt; expected results of the map/reduce job. How did you send me the object that
&gt; you provided off-list?
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; - Chris
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; On Thu, Aug 15, 2013 at 12:36 PM, Chris Meiklejohn &lt;
&gt; cmeiklej...@basho.com (mailto:cmeiklej...@basho.com)&gt; wrote:
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; Hi Doug,
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; Can you provide a sample of the JSON that you're storing in
&gt; these objects? It appears that mochijson2's tokenizer is crashing because
&gt; it thinks the JSON is not valid, where the Spidermonkey parsing is
&gt; succeeding.
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; - Chris
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; On Wed, Aug 14, 2013 at 10:58 AM, Doug Read &lt;
&gt; doug.r...@qnary.com (mailto:doug.r...@qnary.com)&gt; wrote:
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; The following MapReduce job fails using javascript but
&gt; succeeds when using erlang.
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; Riak 1.2.0 2012-0806 Debian x86\_64
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; 3 nodes, n\_val=3
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; Riak diag gives large list of
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; [warning] The following preflists do not satisfy the n\_val:
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; Not really sure what this means but thought i would share.
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; JAVASCRIPT:
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; curl -XPOST http://localhost:8098/mapred -H 'Content-Type:
&gt; application/json' -d '{"inputs":[ [ "aaaaaaaa-4536-9048-87ef2e48ddda",
&gt; "key\_5ad26d0d-4d28-40ca-afcb-1c9895cc5c71" ] ], "query":[ { "map": {
&gt; "name": "Riak.mapValu
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

