---
title: "Re: riak errors related to riak_pipe_vnode"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-05-21T12:51:04-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11140"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg10995"
author_name: "Bryan Fink"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-05-21T12:51:04-07:00
---


Hello. A small update to this issue:

While Alex is correct, that "fitting was gone before startup" messages
in Riak logs can be a symptom of an overloaded cluster, they are most
often nothing more than spam right after an MR query reaches its
timeout. That is why I've just merged a change for the next version of
Riak that lowers that message from 'error' to 'debug' level.

https://github.com/basho/riak\_pipe/pull/75

Look forward to less noise in your logs soon.

Cheers,
Bryan


On Tue, Apr 30, 2013 at 8:40 AM, Bhuwan Chawla  wrote:
&gt; Thank you very much. We're going to get Enterprise and will work directly
&gt; with Basho to better understand our setup.
&gt;
&gt; Just wanted to reply in case someone in the future comes across the same (or
&gt; similar) issue.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Wed, Apr 17, 2013 at 3:09 PM, Alexander Moore 
&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi Bhuwan,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; That error usually means that you are overloading your cluster in some
&gt;&gt; fashion.
&gt;&gt; To fix this you could try a rolling restart of your nodes.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; To find the root cause though, can you reply with the following
&gt;&gt; information:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; What are the ulimit settings on your riak machines?
&gt;&gt; Are you running a lot of MapReduce jobs?
&gt;&gt; Can you clean and attach the logs here?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt; Alex
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Wed, Apr 17, 2013 at 2:42 PM, Bhuwan Chawla  wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; I'm seeing tons of errors in our log files and not sure what they mean
&gt;&gt;&gt; (Riak 1.2.1):
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; error.log
&gt;&gt;&gt; &lt;0.314.0&gt;@riak\_pipe\_vnode:new\_worker:766 Pipe worker startup
&gt;&gt;&gt; failed:fitting was gone before startup
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; erlang.log
&gt;&gt;&gt; [error] Pipe worker startup failed:fitting was gone before startup
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Any advice is greatly appreciated :-)
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

