---
title: "Re: Search Crashes"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-11-20T11:48:54-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13041"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13036"
author_name: "Gabriel Littman"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-11-20T11:48:54-08:00
---


Resending without entire thread:


On Wed, Nov 20, 2013 at 11:38 AM, Gabriel Littman  wrote:

&gt; Hi Ryan,
&gt;
&gt; Thanks for your response, let me get right into it.
&gt;
&gt; 1) We are installed via deb package
&gt; ii riak 1.4.1-1
&gt; Riak is a distributed data store
&gt;
&gt; 2) We did recently upgrade our to riak python library 2.0 but I also have
&gt; a cluster still on the 1.4 client that has similar problems.
&gt;
&gt; 3) We less recently upgraded riak itself from 1.2.x to 1.4. We ended up
&gt; starting with an empty riak store in the processes. Honestly we've had
&gt; many problems with search index even under 1.2. Mostly riak would get into
&gt; a state where it would continuously crash after startup until we
&gt; deleted /var/lib/riak/merge\_index on the node and then rebuilt the search
&gt; index via read/write. The particular problems I'm having now I cannot
&gt; confirm if they were happening under riak 1.2 or not.
&gt;
&gt; looks like allow\_mult is false, but I just confirmed with my colleague
&gt; that \*it was previously set to true\* so it could be that we have a hold
&gt; over issue from that.
&gt; $ curl 'http://10.1.2.95:8098/buckets/ctv\_tvdata/props'
&gt;
&gt; {"props":{"allow\_mult":false,"basic\_quorum":false,"big\_vclock":50,"chash\_keyfun":{"mod":"riak\_core\_util","fun":"chash\_std\_keyfun"},"dw":0,"last\_write\_wins":false,"linkfun":{"mod":"riak\_kv\_wm\_link\_walker","fun":"mapreduce\_linkfun"},"n\_val":3,"name":"ctv\_tvdata","notfound\_ok":false,"old\_vclock":86400,"postcommit":[],"pr":0,"precommit":[{"fun":"precommit","mod":"riak\_search\_kv\_hook"},{"mod":"riak\_search\_kv\_hook","fun":"precommit"}],"pw":0,"r":1,"rw":1,"search":true,"small\_vclock":50,"w":1,"young\_vclock":20}}
&gt;
&gt; Since it is now set to false now would you have a suggestion on how to
&gt; clear the problem? (Delete merge\_index?)
&gt;
&gt; I can package up my logs and send them to you directly if we still feel
&gt; it's needed.
&gt;
&gt; Thank you so much for your help,
&gt;
&gt; Gabe
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Wed, Nov 20, 2013 at 9:39 AM, Ryan Zezeski  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi Gabriel,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; First, let me verify a few things.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; 1. You are on Riak 1.4? Which patch version? 1.4.2?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; 2. You recently upgraded you client? Did you have any of these failures
&gt;&gt; before upgrading the client?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; 3. Have you made any other changes between the time your system was
&gt;&gt; working and the time it started exhibiting these failures? For example, set
&gt;&gt; allow\_mult=true?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Given that you are having 'badmatch' hook crashes during insert I have
&gt;&gt; the suspicion that allow\_mult was recently changed to true as the Riak
&gt;&gt; Search hook cannot deal with siblings. What does the following curl show:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; curl 'http://host:port/buckets/ctv\_tvdata/props'
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; If that has 'allow\_mult: true' then that is your issue.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; As for your search operations. I'm not sure why they are failing. If you
&gt;&gt; want you could tar.gz all the logs for each node and email that to me.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; -Z
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

