---
title: "Re: Storing Photos in riak"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-03-24T05:57:09-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13896"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13895"
author_name: "Matthew Von-Maszewski"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-03-24T05:57:09-07:00
---


Ingo,

We regularly test Riak and its leveldb backend with 130k objects as part of our 
performance and qualification tests. Works just fine.

The one thing to remember is that with N=3 redundancy, the bandwidth between 
the nodes will approach 3 times the incoming user bandwidth. Make sure your 
network infrastructure is ready between your nodes (servers).

The 130K testing is based upon the loads created by one of our enterprise 
customers. You can read details of that use case here:

http://media.basho.com/pdf/Voxer-Case-Study.pdf

Matthew


On Mar 24, 2014, at 7:22 AM, Ingo Rockel  wrote:

&gt; Hi List,
&gt; 
&gt; I'm currently evaluating the possibilities to migrate our mysql-based image 
&gt; storage to something which actually scales and is easier to maintain.
&gt; 
&gt; Among different distributed file systems (like ceph, openstack swift) I was 
&gt; looking at riak as we already have a riak cluster for storing our users 
&gt; messages.
&gt; 
&gt; As we are only storing quite stripped down versions of our users photos, the 
&gt; average size of the photos is only about 30-40kb, there might be some above 
&gt; 100KB though. But all are less than 1MB.
&gt; 
&gt; As our objects are quite small and I don't need anything besides getting the 
&gt; binary for a key I want to use riak without riak CS. Is this a good or bad 
&gt; idea?
&gt; 
&gt; The current storage (which needs to be migrated) in MySQL has about 35 
&gt; million entries which consume 1.1TB of space.
&gt; 
&gt; Any ideas or suggestions?
&gt; 
&gt; Ingo
&gt; 
&gt; -- 
&gt; Software Architect
&gt; 
&gt; Blue Lion mobile GmbH
&gt; Tel. +49 (0) 221 788 797 14
&gt; Fax. +49 (0) 221 788 797 19
&gt; Mob. +49 (0) 176 24 87 30 89
&gt; 
&gt; ingo.roc...@bluelionmobile.com
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; qeep: Hefferwolf
&gt; 
&gt; www.bluelionmobile.com
&gt; www.qeep.net
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

