---
title: "Re: Understanding an intermittent mapreduce error"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-06-16T18:21:08-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14318"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14316"
author_name: "Sean Cribbs"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-06-16T18:21:08-07:00
---


Sorry for the typo, replace 'rr' with 'rp' on the front of that.

Sean Cribbs

&gt; On Jun 16, 2014, at 7:59 PM, Toby Corkindale  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; Hi Sean,
&gt; Thanks for your response -- sorry about the delay. I'm in a far away timezone.
&gt; The response I get is:
&gt; Eshell V5.9.1 (abort with ^G)
&gt; (riak@riak01.internal)1&gt; rr(rpc:multicall(riak\_kv\_mapred\_json,
&gt; module\_info, [exports])).
&gt; {error,invalid\_filename}
&gt; (riak@riak01.internal)2&gt;
&gt; 
&gt; -Toby
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On 16 June 2014 23:22, Sean Cribbs  wrote:
&gt;&gt; Toby,
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Could you try this?
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 1. Run `riak attach`
&gt;&gt; 2. Type into the console: rr(rpc:multicall(riak\_kv\_mapred\_json, module\_info,
&gt;&gt; [exports])).
&gt;&gt; 3. Paste back to me what the result is
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Cheers,
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; On Mon, Jun 16, 2014 at 3:31 AM, Toby Corkindale  wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Hi,
&gt;&gt;&gt; I'm trying to understand why I'm getting an intermittent error on a
&gt;&gt;&gt; particular map-reduce call to Riak 1.4.9.
&gt;&gt;&gt; The query isn't particularly complicated, and filters mean it should
&gt;&gt;&gt; only be running over ~100 keys, and returning &lt;10 each time, so I
&gt;&gt;&gt; don't think I should be hitting any stack or memory limits in the JS
&gt;&gt;&gt; VMs.
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; It fails frequently, but not every time. When pointing it at just a
&gt;&gt;&gt; single Riak server for debugging purposes, it fails around 30% of the
&gt;&gt;&gt; time.
&gt;&gt;&gt; The error returned is as follows:
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; {
&gt;&gt;&gt; "input" : null,
&gt;&gt;&gt; "stack" : null,
&gt;&gt;&gt; "phase" : 1,
&gt;&gt;&gt; "error" :
&gt;&gt;&gt; "{undef,[{riak\_kv\_mapred\_json,jsonify\_not\_found,[{struct,[{&lt;&lt;\"email\"&gt;&gt;,&lt;&lt;\"u...@example.com\"&gt;&gt;},{&lt;&lt;\"attributes\"&gt;&gt;,[&lt;&lt;\"someattributes\"&gt;&gt;,&lt;&lt;\"somemoreattributes\"&gt;&gt;,&lt;&lt;\"w...\"&gt;&gt;,...]},...]}],...},...]}",
&gt;&gt;&gt; "type" : null
&gt;&gt;&gt; }
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; There are no errors in the Riak server logs.
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt;&gt; Toby
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt;&gt; Software Engineer
&gt;&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt;&gt; http://basho.com/
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; -- 
&gt; Turning and turning in the widening gyre
&gt; The falcon cannot hear the falconer
&gt; Things fall apart; the center cannot hold
&gt; Mere anarchy is loosed upon the world

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

