---
title: "Re: Start up problem talking to Riak"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2017-02-13T07:46:22-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg17972"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg17971"
author_name: "Alex Moore"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2017-02-13T07:46:22-08:00
---


Yeah, what Alex said. You can't see it with your application because it's
currently bound to the localhost loopback address, but
it's bad to just expose everything publicly.

1. Where is this cluster running? (AWS or local dev cluster?)
2. What are you trying to connect to Riak with? Is it one of our clients or
just raw HTTP requests?

Thanks,
Alex

On Mon, Feb 13, 2017 at 10:33 AM, Alexander Sicular 
wrote:

&gt; Please don't do that. Don't point the internet at your database. Have them
&gt; communicate amongst each other on internal ips and route the public through
&gt; a proxy / middleware.
&gt;
&gt; -Alexander
&gt;
&gt; @siculars
&gt; http://siculars.posthaven.com
&gt;
&gt; Sent from my iRotaryPhone
&gt;
&gt; &gt; On Feb 13, 2017, at 04:00, AWS  wrote:
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; I know that this isn't directly a Riak issue but I am sure that some of
&gt; you have met this before and can maybe help me. I am used to Macs and
&gt; Windows but have now set up an Ubuntu 14.04LTS server on my home network. I
&gt; have 5 fixed IP addresses so the server has its own external address. I
&gt; have opened port 8098 on my router to point at the server and checked that
&gt; ufw isn't running. I have tested with it running ufw and with 'allow 8098'
&gt; applied. I still cannot connect to Riak. On the same computer I get a pong
&gt; back to a ping so Riak seems to be OK.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; I have a Riak server running on AWS and had trouble setting that up
&gt; until I, eventually, opened all ports.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Can anyone please suggest some steps that I might take? I need this
&gt; running for an Open University course that I am studying. My AWS free
&gt; server runs out before the course finishes so I have to get this up and
&gt; running soon.
&gt; &gt; Thanks in advance.
&gt; &gt; David
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Message sent using Winmail Mail Server
&gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

