---
title: "Re: Riak CS 2 backend config confusion"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-06-03T20:22:51-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16195"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16172"
author_name: "Shunichi Shinohara"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-06-03T20:22:51-07:00
---


Hi Toby,

Current versions for Riak CS system are: Riak CS 2.0.x and it is
tested with Riak 2.0.x. Sorry for confusion, but the document you
pointed is for the combination. You can use the configuration steps
using advanced.config in the doc.

We are now in development of Riak CS 2.1 and prefix\_multi and
cs\_version will be available in the future. It will reduce configuration
complexity, but please wait for a while :)

[1] https://github.com/basho/riak\_kv/pull/1082
--
Shunichi Shinohara
Basho Japan KK


On Tue, Jun 2, 2015 at 2:55 PM, Toby Corkindale  wrote:
&gt; Hi
&gt; I'm in the process of moving from a Riak 1.4.x w/CS installation, to a Riak
&gt; CS 2 installation, and I'm confused by comments in the riak.conf compared to
&gt; the documentation online for riak cs, regarding the backend.
&gt;
&gt; riak.conf contains the following lines:
&gt;
&gt; ## Specifies the storage engine used for Riak's key-value data
&gt; ## and secondary indexes (if supported).
&gt; ##
&gt; ## Default: bitcask
&gt; ##
&gt; ## Acceptable values:
&gt; ## - one of: bitcask, leveldb, memory, multi, prefix\_multi
&gt; storage\_backend = bitcask
&gt;
&gt; ## Simplify prefix\_multi configuration for Riak CS. Keep this
&gt; ## commented out unless Riak is configured for Riak CS.
&gt; ##
&gt; ## Acceptable values:
&gt; ## - an integer
&gt; ## cs\_version = 20000
&gt;
&gt; What is that bit about cs\_version and prefix\_multi there for?
&gt; There's no mention of that here:
&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riakcs/latest/cookbooks/configuration/Configuring-Riak/
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Cheers,
&gt; Toby
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

