---
title: "Re: Implicit calls to ListKeys?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-02-10T02:07:10-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10073"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg10067"
author_name: "OJ Reeves"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-02-10T02:07:10-08:00
---


&gt; There must be another.
&gt;

If you look at the code you'll see the ListKeys and StreamingListKeys are
the only two functions that make the call to write this debug output.
DeleteBucket has to list keys to know what to delete, so it calls ListKeys
first.

If you can provide a code sample that generates this output twice where
there is only one visible call I would be happy to fix the problem.

OJ




&gt; I am only calling ListKeys and DeleteBucket. Each once, so I expect to see
&gt; this warning twice. Which I do most of the time. But occasionally I see
&gt; this warning 2 or 3 more times. Is it possible that there is some kind of
&gt; recursion going on that triggers this call?\*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt; \*\* \*\*
&gt;
&gt; \*From:\* Alexander Moore [mailto:moore.a...@gmail.com]
&gt; \*Sent:\* Saturday, February 09, 2013 10:41 PM
&gt; \*To:\* Kevin Burton
&gt; \*Cc:\* riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; \*Subject:\* Re: Implicit calls to ListKeys?\*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt; \*\* \*\*
&gt;
&gt; Hey Kevin,\*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt; \*\* \*\*
&gt;
&gt; It looks like only RiakClient.ListKeys(), RiakClient.ListKeysStream(), and
&gt; RiakClient.DeleteBucket() will give you that warning.
&gt; You shouldn't see it popup from anywhere else in CorrugatedIron. \*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,\*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt; Alex\*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt; \*\* \*\*
&gt;
&gt; \*\* \*\*
&gt;
&gt; On Sat, Feb 9, 2013 at 11:19 PM, Kevin Burton 
&gt; wrote:\*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt; One more question I have some code that specifically lists the keys in a
&gt; bucket. I am using Corrugated Iron so I get the warning:\*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt; \*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt; \*\*\* [CI] -&gt; ListKeys is an expensive operation and should not be used in
&gt; Production scenarios. \*\*\*\*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt; \*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt; Then because again this is a test/development environment I am explicitly
&gt; removing the bucket. I get this same warning again and from what I
&gt; understand this is to be expected.\*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt; So I run this code with different data sets and every once and a while I
&gt; get two or three of these warnings again. Other than ListKeys and
&gt; DeleteBucket what other calls in CorrugatedIron implicitly call ListKeys
&gt; and would trigger generating this warning again?\*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt; \*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com\*\*\*\*
&gt;
&gt; \*\* \*\*
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;


-- 

OJ Reeves
+61 431 952 586
http://buffered.io/
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

