---
title: "Re: Riak DT refresh"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2016-05-07T08:56:50-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg17308"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg17307"
author_name: "Russell Brown"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2016-05-07T08:56:50-07:00
---


In erlang? Might save myself the trouble and wait if so.

On 7 May 2016, at 13:12, Christopher Meiklejohn 
 wrote:

&gt; We are also using Riak DT as a base. However, we are doing a greenfield 
&gt; implementation of the new delta work in Lasp and hope to have an open-source 
&gt; library of these implementations available soon.
&gt; 
&gt; - Christopher 
&gt; 
&gt; On Saturday, May 7, 2016, DeadZen  wrote:
&gt; +1
&gt; 
&gt; On Fri, May 6, 2016 at 8:17 PM, Sargun Dhillon  wrote:
&gt; &gt; We're using riak\_dt in anger in our product. We are already using it
&gt; &gt; with rebar3, and Erlang 18.3 through some super messy patches.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; I would love to see a register that takes the logical clock, and
&gt; &gt; timestamp for resolution, rather than just a straightup timestamp. My
&gt; &gt; biggest ask though is delta-CRDTs. Delta-CRDTs with a decent
&gt; &gt; anti-entropy algorithm would allow our system to scale from 1000s of
&gt; &gt; keys to 100ks of keys.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Nonetheless, Riak\_dt is an awesome library, and we're probably
&gt; &gt; planning on contributing back to it soonish, especially if any of the
&gt; &gt; other comments on this thread are things we need, and Basho doesn't.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; On Thu, Apr 28, 2016 at 12:55 AM, Russell Brown  
&gt; &gt; wrote:
&gt; &gt;&gt; Hi,
&gt; &gt;&gt; Riak DT[1] is in need of some love. I know that some of you on this list 
&gt; &gt;&gt; (Sargun, are you here? Heinz?) have expressed opinions on the work that 
&gt; &gt;&gt; needs doing. Here is my short list, I would love to hear opinions on 
&gt; &gt;&gt; priority, and any additions to this list:
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; 1. merger smaller map branch
&gt; &gt;&gt; 2. deltas
&gt; &gt;&gt; 3. new data types (we have a range register and some and 
&gt; &gt;&gt; Multi-Value-Register to add, any more?)
&gt; &gt;&gt; 4. Internal state as records or maps (but not these messy tuples)
&gt; &gt;&gt; 5. update to rebar3
&gt; &gt;&gt; 6. update to latest erlang
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; I’m pretty sure there is plenty more. Would greatly appreciate your 
&gt; &gt;&gt; feedback.
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; Many thanks
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; Russell
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; [1] https://github.com/basho/riak\_dt/
&gt; &gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

