---
title: "Re: Recovering Riak data if it can no longer load in memory"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2016-07-12T09:28:23-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg17526"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg17525"
author_name: "Matthew Von-Maszewski"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2016-07-12T09:28:23-07:00
---


It would be helpful if you described the physical characteristics of the 
servers: memory size, logical cpu count, etc.

Google created leveldb to be highly reliable in the face of crashes. If it is 
not restarting, that suggests to me that you have a low memory condition that 
is not able to load leveldb's MANIFEST file. That is easily fixed by moving 
the dataset to a machine with larger memory.

There is also a special flag to reduce Riak's leveldb memory foot print during 
development work. The setting reduces the leveldb performance, but lets you 
run with less memory.

In riak.conf, set:

leveldb.limited\_developer\_mem = true

Matthew


&gt; On Jul 12, 2016, at 11:56 AM, Vikram Lalit  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; Hi - I've been testing a Riak cluster (of 3 nodes) with an ejabberd messaging 
&gt; cluster in front of it that writes data to the Riak nodes. Whilst load 
&gt; testing the platform (by creating 0.5 million ejabberd users via Tsung), I 
&gt; found that the Riak nodes suddenly crashed. My question is how do we recover 
&gt; from such a situation if it were to occur in production?
&gt; 
&gt; To provide further context / details, the leveldb log files storing the data 
&gt; suddenly became too huge, thus making the AWS Riak instances not able to load 
&gt; them in memory anymore. So we get a core dump if 'riak start' is fired on 
&gt; those instances. I had an n\_val = 2, and all 3 nodes went down almost 
&gt; simultaneously, so in such a scenario, we cannot even rely on a 2nd copy of 
&gt; the data. One way to of course prevent it in the first place would be to use 
&gt; auto-scaling, but I'm wondering is there a ex post facto / post the event 
&gt; recovery that can be performed in such a scenario? Is it possible to simply 
&gt; copy the leveldb data to a larger memory instance, or to curtail the data 
&gt; further to allow loading in the same instance?
&gt; 
&gt; Appreciate if you can provide inputs - a tad concerned as to how we could 
&gt; recover from such a situation if it were to happen in production (apart from 
&gt; leveraging auto-scaling as a preventive measure).
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks!
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

