---
title: "Re: Storing Photos in riak"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-03-24T11:53:42-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13912"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13911"
author_name: "Matthew Von-Maszewski"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-03-24T11:53:42-07:00
---


To date, only leveldb. Will be expanding the matrix to bitcask this week for 
the first time. Not sure where memory backend fits with that particular test 
scenario. Will ask around.

Matthew


On Mar 24, 2014, at 2:38 PM, István  wrote:

&gt; Hi Matthew,
&gt; 
&gt; Just a quick question. Do you test Riak with memory backend with 130k
&gt; objects or just LevelDB?
&gt; 
&gt; Regards,
&gt; Istvan
&gt; 
&gt; On Mon, Mar 24, 2014 at 5:55 AM, Matthew Von-Maszewski
&gt;  wrote:
&gt;&gt; Ingo,
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; We regularly test Riak and its leveldb backend with 130k objects as part of 
&gt;&gt; our performance and qualification tests. Works just fine.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; The one thing to remember is that with N=3 redundancy, the bandwidth between 
&gt;&gt; the nodes will approach 3 times the incoming user bandwidth. Make sure your 
&gt;&gt; network infrastructure is ready between your nodes (servers).
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; The 130K testing is based upon the loads created by one of our enterprise 
&gt;&gt; customers. You can read details of that use case here:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; http://media.basho.com/pdf/Voxer-Case-Study.pdf
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Matthew
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On Mar 24, 2014, at 7:22 AM, Ingo Rockel  
&gt;&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Hi List,
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; I'm currently evaluating the possibilities to migrate our mysql-based image 
&gt;&gt;&gt; storage to something which actually scales and is easier to maintain.
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Among different distributed file systems (like ceph, openstack swift) I was 
&gt;&gt;&gt; looking at riak as we already have a riak cluster for storing our users 
&gt;&gt;&gt; messages.
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; As we are only storing quite stripped down versions of our users photos, 
&gt;&gt;&gt; the average size of the photos is only about 30-40kb, there might be some 
&gt;&gt;&gt; above 100KB though. But all are less than 1MB.
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; As our objects are quite small and I don't need anything besides getting 
&gt;&gt;&gt; the binary for a key I want to use riak without riak CS. Is this a good or 
&gt;&gt;&gt; bad idea?
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; The current storage (which needs to be migrated) in MySQL has about 35 
&gt;&gt;&gt; million entries which consume 1.1TB of space.
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Any ideas or suggestions?
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Ingo
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt;&gt; Software Architect
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Blue Lion mobile GmbH
&gt;&gt;&gt; Tel. +49 (0) 221 788 797 14
&gt;&gt;&gt; Fax. +49 (0) 221 788 797 19
&gt;&gt;&gt; Mob. +49 (0) 176 24 87 30 89
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; ingo.roc...@bluelionmobile.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; qeep: Hefferwolf
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; www.bluelionmobile.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; www.qeep.net
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; -- 
&gt; the sun shines for all


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

