---
title: "Re: Trouble with Riak Search JSON Extractor"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-03-22T15:46:48-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15906"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15905"
author_name: "Zeeshan Lakhani"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-03-22T15:46:48-07:00
---


Hello Matt,

Are you receiving any indexing errors in your logs (check the Solr logs as 
well)? To be sure, I just wrote a test (using our erlang pb api, 
https://github.com/basho/yokozuna/pull/474/files#diff-5d0015658ff90b94cb1a00329ffafe00R251
 
)
 using a custom schema, and I didn’t run into any troubles; I also checked via 
the http api. If you have the required \_yz\* fields, you should get those back 
with the document. If you want the groups items themselves, you’d have to make 
`stored` true.

Zeeshan Lakhani
programmer | 
software engineer at @basho | 
org. member/founder of @papers\_we\_love | paperswelove.org
twitter =&gt; @zeeshanlakhani

&gt; On Mar 22, 2015, at 4:13 PM, Matt Brooks  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; Hello,
&gt; 
&gt; I have a quick question about a search schema that would index an array of 
&gt; strings in a JSON object. I am storing user data in JSON that looks something 
&gt; like this:
&gt; 
&gt; {
&gt; "name" : "John Smith",
&gt; "email" : "jsm...@gmail.com ",
&gt; "groups" : [
&gt; "3304cf79",
&gt; "abe155cf"
&gt; ]
&gt; }
&gt; The custom schema I use for users includes this field entry: 
&gt; 
&gt;  multiValued="true"/&gt;
&gt; I also have the following field type entry: 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; I assumed that these entries would allow me to search for users using a query 
&gt; like: 
&gt; 
&gt; curl $RIAK/search/query/user?wt=json&q=groups:3304cf79
&gt; But no docs are returned. I'm almost certain I have an issue with my schema. 
&gt; How can I query users by string entries in the "groups" array?
&gt; 
&gt; Thank you, 
&gt; Matt.
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

