---
title: "Re: Riak Search - Fast Bulk Insert"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-08-14T08:17:28-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14653"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14652"
author_name: "Alexander Sicular"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-08-14T08:17:28-07:00
---


And, afaik, a single index.xml file with multiple docs should probably be 
broken up into one file per doc to make better use of the parallelism already 
mentioned. 

Regards,
Alexander 

@siculars
http://siculars.posthaven.com

Sent from my iRotaryPhone

&gt; On Aug 14, 2014, at 10:43, "Eric Redmond"  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; Note that the search-cmd is for search pre 2.0, which does not use solr. If 
&gt; you're planning on using the new Solr based search, you'll need to run Riak 
&gt; 2.0, and write an import script as Dmitri pointed out.
&gt; 
&gt; Eric Redmond, Engineer @ Basho
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Thu, Aug 14, 2014 at 7:38 AM, Dmitri Zagidulin  
&gt; wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; Hi Mark,
&gt; 
&gt; The best way to bulk load objects into Riak (and into Solr) is to take 
&gt; advantage of Riak's parallelism.
&gt; Spin up a bunch of worker threads (and have them share a pool of connections) 
&gt; and have them issue parallel concurrent puts to all of the nodes in a cluster 
&gt; (you can either use something like HAProxy to load balance, or a riak 
&gt; client's internal load balancing capabilities). 
&gt; 
&gt; This is what https://github.com/basho-labs/riak-data-migrator does, for 
&gt; example, to restore filed out objects quickly.
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On Thu, Aug 14, 2014 at 5:26 AM, Mark Richard Thomas 
&gt;&gt;  wrote:
&gt;&gt; Hello
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; What’s the fastest way (best practice) to insert 20 million documents into a 
&gt;&gt; Riak Search index?
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; search-cmd solr my\_bucket /insert.xml
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; For a proof-of-concept I’ve create a file (index.html) containing 100,000 
&gt;&gt; documents:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; :
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Thanks
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Mark Thomas | Software Engineer | Equifax UK
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; p: +44 (0)208 941 0573
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; m: +44 (0)7908 798 270
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; e: mark.tho...@equifax.com
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Equifax Ltd, Capital House, 25 Chapel Street, London, NW1 5DS
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Equifax Limited is registered in England with Registered No. 2425920. 
&gt;&gt; Registered Office: Capital House, 25 Chapel Street, London NW1 5DS. Equifax 
&gt;&gt; Limited is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Equifax Touchstone Limited is registered in Scotland with Registered No. 
&gt;&gt; SC113401. Registered Office: 54 Deerdykes View, Westfield Park, Cumbernauld 
&gt;&gt; G68 9HN.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Equifax Commercial Services Limited is registered in the Republic of Ireland 
&gt;&gt; with Registered No. 215393. Registered Office: IDA Business & Technology 
&gt;&gt; Park, Rosslare Road, Drinagh, Wexford.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; This message contains information from Equifax which may be confidential and 
&gt;&gt; privileged. If you are not an intended recipient, please refrain from any 
&gt;&gt; disclosure, copying, distribution or use of this information and note that 
&gt;&gt; such actions are prohibited. If you have received this transmission in 
&gt;&gt; error, please notify by e-mail postmas...@equifax.com.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

