---
title: "Re: Corrugated Iron Samples for riak"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-05-31T12:31:32-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11199"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg11197"
author_name: "OJ Reeves"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-05-31T12:31:32-07:00
---


Thanks for the email. While our documentation definitely needs work, I
thought that the basics were at least covered to a reasonable extent.

Would it be possible for you to let us know the places where the docs let
you down please? That would give us some idea of where to best start
filling the gaps.

Thank you!
OJ
On 1 Jun, 2013 2:46 AM, "Jeremiah Peschka" 
wrote:

&gt; You can find up to date samples at
&gt; https://github.com/DistributedNonsense/CorrugatedIron.Samples
&gt;
&gt; ---
&gt; Jeremiah Peschka - Founder, Brent Ozar Unlimited
&gt; MCITP: SQL Server 2008, MVP
&gt; Cloudera Certified Developer for Apache Hadoop
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Fri, May 31, 2013 at 9:26 AM, Pandiarajan Subramani &lt;
&gt; psubram...@americanlogistics.com&gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi Everyone,\*\*\*\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I am trying to explore riak using .net
&gt;&gt; library Corrugated Iron. The api samples in their website is not up to date
&gt;&gt; for the current version of the Corrugated Iron. If anyone have any samples
&gt;&gt; or links of the latest Corrugated Iron api, I really appreciate sharing
&gt;&gt; that with me.\*\*\*\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \*\* \*\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks and Regards\*\*\*\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \*Pandiarajan Subramani\*\*\*\*\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; American Logistics Company (ALC) | Office: 866.999.3371 x132 | Mobile:
&gt;&gt; 575.915.2325 | www.AmericanLogistics.com
&gt;&gt; \*\*\*\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \*Coordinating Passenger Transportation\*\*\*\*\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \*Confidentiality Notice: \*This message is intended only for the use of
&gt;&gt; the individual or entity to whom it is addressed. The message may contain
&gt;&gt; confidential or legally privileged information. If you are not the intended
&gt;&gt; recipient you are hereby notified that any disclosure, copying,
&gt;&gt; distribution of this information is strictly prohibited and may be
&gt;&gt; unlawful. If you have received this communication in error, please notify
&gt;&gt; us immediately by responding to this email and then delete it from your
&gt;&gt; system.\*\*\*\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \*\* \*\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

