---
title: "Re: pagination over 2i indexes in java"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-02-12T08:49:26-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13648"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13646"
author_name: "Brian Roach"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-02-12T08:49:26-08:00
---


Joe -

The current Java client codebase it built in layers. The top-level
user API uses an instance of the mid-level RawClient interface which
passes it to the appropriate protocol-specific layer at the bottom.

We are not able to reproduce what you are describing using the 1.4.4
version of the client. Doing a 2i query (with a range or a single
value) and specifying a max number of results returns the results
requested and a continuation.

Here's a gist using the RawClient:

https://gist.github.com/broach/99880915e8c71c53e9bb

If you have a test case that demonstrates the issue you're having and
can post it as a gist in github (or a pastie, etc) we'll be happy to
look at it.

Thanks!
- Roach

On Tue, Feb 11, 2014 at 10:32 PM, joe dude  wrote:
&gt; Yeah, i looked at your code and it looks very similar to what i'm doing. The
&gt; difference is i'm just talking to the client directly:
&gt;
&gt; StreamingOperation result = rawClient.fetchIndex(query);
&gt;
&gt; And rawClient is a "PBClusterClient". Might that have something to do with
&gt; it?
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Tuesday, February 11, 2014 5:00 PM, Dave Rusek  wrote:
&gt; Joe,
&gt;
&gt; Sorry, I wanted to get that email out before I stepped out. The specific
&gt; test I added is here:
&gt;
&gt; https://github.com/basho/riak-java-client/blob/1.4.x-develop/src/test/java/com/basho/riak/client/itest/ITestBucket.java#L280
&gt;
&gt; Does this represent your use case? If not, do you happen to have a failing
&gt; test I could take a look at?
&gt;
&gt; Thanks!
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Dave Rusek
&gt; Software Engineer
&gt; Basho Technologies
&gt; @davidjrusek
&gt;
&gt; On February 11, 2014 at 5:33:57 PM, Dave Rusek (dru...@basho.com) wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Joe,
&gt;
&gt; I added an integration test to the 1.4.x-develop and the 1.4.4 branch of the
&gt; client and tried them against the latest 1.4 branch of Riak but was not able
&gt; to reproduce your issue.
&gt;
&gt; https://github.com/basho/riak-java-client/tree/1.4.x-develop
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Dave Rusek
&gt; Software Engineer
&gt; Basho Technologies
&gt; @davidjrusek
&gt;
&gt; On February 11, 2014 at 5:21:11 PM, Brian Roach (ro...@basho.com) wrote:
&gt;
&gt; ---------- Forwarded message ----------
&gt; From: joe dude 
&gt; Date: Tue, Feb 11, 2014 at 2:15 PM
&gt; Subject: Re: pagination over 2i indexes in java
&gt; To: Brian Roach 
&gt; Cc: "riak-users@lists.basho.com" 
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; I'm using 1.4.4, and creating a PBClusterClient.
&gt;
&gt; Thanks.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Tuesday, February 11, 2014 11:03 AM, Brian Roach  wrote:
&gt; Hi Joe -
&gt;
&gt; What version of the Riak Java client are you using, and which protocol
&gt; (PB or HTTP)?
&gt;
&gt; Will take a look at it.
&gt;
&gt; Thanks!
&gt; - Roach
&gt;
&gt; On Tue, Feb 11, 2014 at 11:50 AM, joe dude  wrote:
&gt;&gt; Hi, trying to figure out how to use the java client to do 2i index queries
&gt;&gt; with pagination.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I can issue the query with max\_results and get back exactly the number
&gt;&gt; that
&gt;&gt; i asked for, but the continuation value in the returned StreamingOperation
&gt;&gt; object is null.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; In contrast, i get pagination to work just fine using the examples from:
&gt;&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/dev/using/2i/
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I'm using:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; public StreamingOperation fetchIndex(IndexSpec indexSpec)
&gt;&gt; throws IOException
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; It's as if i'm missing something when building IndexSpec, but not sure
&gt;&gt; what.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thx.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

