---
title: "Re: Using withoutFetch with DomainBucket"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-03-12T08:45:11-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10379"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg10378"
author_name: "Daniel Iwan"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-03-12T08:45:11-07:00
---


Brian,

Where I got lost was the fact that I was using custom Converter and I did
not do anything with vclock passed into fromDomain().
That was undetected because at the same time I wasn't using withoutFetch,
which I believe is the only moment where missing @RiakVClock annotation
can be detected. Normally when JSONConverter is used missing @RiakVClock
would also be detected.
Could you confirm?

Few additional, related questions:
- if I use byte[] or VClock field and use withoutFetch() what is default
value it should be set to (since it will be extracted via StoreObject)?
- if I want to avoid overwriting deleted keys, I guess I need to set
returnDeletedVClock as below,
 DomainBucketBuilder builder = DomainBucket.builder(bucket,
Custom.class)
 builder.returnDeletedVClock(true);

and then check isDeleted on sibblings and use ConditionalStoreMutation to
return false id one of he sibblings has that flag set to true?
I believe it needs to use VClock of deleted sibbling as well?

Thanks
Daniel



The .withoutFetch() method isn't available when using the DomanBucket.
&gt;
&gt; As for the vector clock, when using .withoutFetch() the .execute()
&gt; method of StoreObject is going to extract the vector clock from the
&gt; POJO returned from your Mutation by looking for a VectorClock or
&gt; byte[] field that is annotated with @RiakVClock. It is then passed to
&gt; the Converter's .fromDomain() method as an argument. If you are
&gt; storing an object you previously fetched from Riak, that vector clock
&gt; and annotation needs to be there.
&gt;
&gt; The easiest way to implement that is:
&gt; 1. Have a VectorClock or byte[] field in your POJO annotated with
&gt; @RiakVClock
&gt;
&gt; 2. When you fetch, in the .toDomain() method of your Converter have
&gt; the line of code you noted.
&gt;
&gt; 3. When you store, the vector clock stored in that field will be
&gt; passed to the .fromDomain() method of your Converter. Make sure to
&gt; call the .withVClock(vclock) method of the RiakObjectBuilder or
&gt; explicitly set it in the IRiakObject being returned.
&gt;
&gt; - Roach
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Fri, Mar 8, 2013 at 3:31 PM, Daniel Iwan  wrote:
&gt; &gt; Somehow I cannot find a way to avoid pre-fetch during store operation
&gt; (Java
&gt; &gt; client).
&gt; &gt; I know in StoreObject there is withoutFetch method for that purpose but I
&gt; &gt; cannot find corresponding method/property in DomainBucket or
&gt; &gt; DomainBucketBuilder
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Am I missing something?
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Also on related note when withoutFetch is used I guess I need to provide
&gt; &gt; annotated RiakVClock field and use something like:
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; VClockUtil.setVClock(domainObject, riakObject.getVClock());
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; in my Converter. Is that right or is there better way to do it?
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; I'm using Riak Java client 1.1.0
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Thanks
&gt; &gt; Daniel
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

