---
title: "Re: ANN Welle 1.4.0 is released"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-02-23T08:24:55-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10227"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg10220"
author_name: "Mark Phillips"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-02-23T08:24:55-08:00
---


Excellent!

Godspeed. We are standing by to help and share in the excitement when you
put Riak into production - or break it. :)

Mark

On Saturday, February 23, 2013, Josh Kamau wrote:

&gt; Mark ;
&gt;
&gt; I have decided to give riak a spin...
&gt;
&gt; Somebody wish me a good luck ;)
&gt;
&gt; Josh
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Sat, Feb 23, 2013 at 2:01 AM, OJ Reeves  wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Nice. In my experience this would be the \*very first ever\* reservations
&gt; system that \*wasn't\* eventually consistent. Best of luck! :)
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Fri, Feb 22, 2013 at 6:08 PM, Josh Kamau  wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Hi Mark ;
&gt;
&gt; Think about a reservations application.... where every write must be
&gt; available immediately to all the readers.
&gt; Josh.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Fri, Feb 22, 2013 at 6:08 AM, Mark Phillips  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Thu, Feb 21, 2013 at 12:11 PM, Josh Kamau wrote:
&gt;
&gt; I will... My usecases require durability and strict consistency.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Ah. I see. At the risk opening up a CAP-themed Pandora's box, can you
&gt; share the specific needs around consistency? Riak's scores high mark's in
&gt; the durability area, and we're always keen to learn where we fall short on
&gt; consistency at the use-case level (short of "Riak is eventually consistent;
&gt; I need traditional consistency guarantees").
&gt;
&gt; Any specifics you can provide?
&gt;
&gt; Mark
&gt; twitter.com/pharkmillups
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Josh.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Thu, Feb 21, 2013 at 11:02 PM, Mark Phillips  wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Hey Josh,
&gt;
&gt; On Thu, Feb 21, 2013 at 2:18 AM, Josh Kamau  wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Hi Clojurewerkz guys ;
&gt;
&gt; I like your work on various libraries. Just wondering, do you plan to do a
&gt; library for HBase ?
&gt;
&gt; Regards.
&gt; Josh
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Take Riak for a spin. :)
&gt;
&gt; Mark
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Thu, Feb 21, 2013 at 12:49 PM, Michael Klishin &lt;
&gt; michael.s.klis...@gmail.com&gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Welle [1] is an expressive Clojure client for Riak with batteries included.
&gt;
&gt; 1.4.0 is a minor release that is \*100% backwards-compatible\* with 1.3.x.
&gt; This version has been tested against Riak 1.2 as well as RCs of Riak 1.3.
&gt;
&gt; Release notes:
&gt; http://blog.clojurewerkz.org/blog/2013/02/21/welle-1-dot-4-0-is-released/
&gt;
&gt; 1. http://clojureriak.info
&gt; --
&gt; MK
&gt;
&gt; 
&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

