---
title: "Re: last_write_wins"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-01-29T02:12:29-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13523"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13522"
author_name: "Russell Brown"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-01-29T02:12:29-08:00
---



On 29 Jan 2014, at 09:57, Edgar Veiga  wrote:

&gt; tl;dr
&gt; 
&gt; If I guarantee that the same key is only written with a 5 second interval, is 
&gt; last\_write\_wins=true profitable?

It depends. Does the value you write depend in anyway on the value you read, or 
is it always that you are just getting a totally new value that replaces what 
is in Riak (regardless what is in Riak)?

&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On 27 January 2014 23:25, Edgar Veiga  wrote:
&gt; Hi there everyone!
&gt; 
&gt; I would like to know, if my current application is a good use case to set 
&gt; last\_write\_wins to true.
&gt; 
&gt; Basically I have a cluster of node.js workers reading and writing to riak. 
&gt; Each node.js worker is responsible for a set of keys, so I can guarantee some 
&gt; kind of non distributed cache... 
&gt; The real deal here is that the writing operation is not run evertime an 
&gt; object is changed but each 5 seconds in a "batch insertion/update" style. 
&gt; This brings the guarantee that the same object cannot be write to riak at the 
&gt; same time, not event at the same seconds, there's always a 5 second window 
&gt; between each insertion/update.
&gt; 
&gt; That said, is it profitable to me if I set last\_write\_wins to true? I've been 
&gt; facing some massive writting delays under high loads and it would be nice if 
&gt; I have some kind of way to tune riak.
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks a lot and keep up the good work!
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

