---
title: "Re: Riak on SAN"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-10-03T04:13:42-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12486"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12485"
author_name: "Guido Medina"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-10-03T04:13:42-07:00
---


I have heard some SAN's horrors stories too, Riak nodes are so cheap 
that I don't see the point in even having any mirror on the node, here 
my points:


1. Erlang interprocess communication brings some network usage, why yet
 another network usage on replicating the data? If the whole idea of
 Riak is have your data replicated in different nodes.
2. If a node goes down or die for whatever reason, bring up another
 node and rebuild it.
3. If you want to really replicate your cluster Riak offers the
 enterprise replication which I'm quite sure will be less expensive
 than a SAN and will warranty to have your cluster ready to go
 somewhere else as a backup.
4. I would even go further, SSDs are so cheap and Riak nodes are so
 cheap now adays that I would even build a cluster using RAID 0 or
 RAID 5 SSDs (yes, no mirror with RAID 1, if too afraid, RAID 5),
 that will have a great impact on performance. Again, if something
 goes wrong with 1 node, refer to point 2.

SANs and all those "legacy" backup and replication IMHO are meant for 
other products, like an Oracle money eater DB server.


HTH,

Guido.

On 03/10/13 12:00, Brian Akins wrote:

So, call me naive, but couldn't ZFS be used as Heinze suggested?

I have some SAN horror stories - both operationally and from an 
economic perspective.



\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

