---
title: "Re: Data population of Yokozuna on key-path in schema?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-07-18T06:33:09-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11582"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg11580"
author_name: "Ryan Zezeski"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-07-18T06:33:09-07:00
---


As Eric said, the XML extractor causes the nested elements to become
concatenated by an underscore. "Extractor" is a Yokozuna term. It is the
process by which a Riak Object is mapped to a Solr document. In the case
of a Riak Object whose value is XML the XML is flattened by a)
concatenating nested elements with '\_' and b) concatenating attributes with
'@' (this can be changed if necessary, just ask). Yokozuna provides a
resource to test how a given object would be extracted.

curl -X PUT -i -h 'content-type: application/xml' 'http://host:port/extract'
--data-binary @some.xml

This will return a JSON representation of the field-values extracted from
the object. You can use a json pretty printer like jsonpp to make it
easier to read.

-Z



On Wed, Jul 17, 2013 at 8:51 PM, Eric Redmond  wrote:

&gt; That's correct. The XML extractor nests by element name, separating
&gt; elements by an underscore.
&gt;
&gt; Eric
&gt;
&gt; On Jul 17, 2013, at 12:46 PM, Dave Martorana  wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Hi,
&gt;
&gt; I realize I may be way off-base, but I noticed the following slide in
&gt; Ryan’s recent Ricon East talk on Yokozuna:
&gt;
&gt; http://cl.ly/image/3s1b1v2w2x12
&gt;
&gt; Does the schema pick out values based on key-path automatically? For
&gt; instance,
&gt;
&gt; val...
&gt;
&gt; automatically gets mapped to the “commit\_repo" field definition for the
&gt; schema?
&gt;
&gt; Thanks!
&gt;
&gt; Dave
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

