---
title: "Re: Query on Riak Search in a cluster of 3 nodes behind ELB is giving	different result everytime"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-04-01T03:49:48-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15946"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15945"
author_name: "Vitaliy E"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-04-01T03:49:48-07:00
---


Hi Michael,

It can't be the same in my case because we run with n\_val = 3 on 5 nodes,
that is not all keys exist on each node. And I don't know how to check Sorl
cores of all nodes for consistency, sorry. What I did was to write a simple
client that ran the same search request multiple times and counted
occurrences of each key in the results. If the number of executions is big
enough, a key missing from ~33% of results means it's not indexed on one
node (out of three), ~66% - not indexed on two nodes. But again, it was a
dev environment with just a few keys, so I could run this safely. BTW the
indexes eventually converged, within 24 hours I think.

Regards,
Vitaliy

On Wed, Apr 1, 2015 at 12:38 PM, Michael Weibel 
wrote:

&gt; Hey Vitaly,
&gt;
&gt; experienced the same issue recently (see
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/pipermail/riak-users\_lists.basho.com/2015-March/016972.html).
&gt;
&gt; When you have a look at your now working solr instances admin pages, do
&gt; you have everywhere the index counts the same? (i.e. the numDocs, maxDocs,
&gt; deletedDocs)
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; Michael
&gt;
&gt; 2015-04-01 9:50 GMT+02:00 Vitaliy E &lt;13vitam...@gmail.com&gt;:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hello everyone,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I've just joined the list, and am a bit late to the party. Sorry about
&gt;&gt; that. Thought I would contribute an answer anyway.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Santi, what is you n\_val?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I observed the behavior you are describing on Riak 2.0.0 with n\_val=3 in
&gt;&gt; two cases:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; 1. One of the nodes was not part of the cluster although the cluster was
&gt;&gt; thinking it was. Don't ask me how that happened. Obviously, when a request
&gt;&gt; hit that node part of the entries could not be found there.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; 2. Look for indexing errors in Solr console and Riak logs. Each Riak node
&gt;&gt; has its own Solr "repository", so if an entry fails to be indexed on any of
&gt;&gt; them, search results will be inconsistent depending on which set of nodes
&gt;&gt; returns it. Let's say you have replicas on nodes A, B, and C. Entry X
&gt;&gt; failed to be indexed on A, entry Y failed to be indexed on A and B, and
&gt;&gt; entry Z was indexed OK on all nodes. Then you may get {X,Y,Z}, {X,Z}, or
&gt;&gt; {Z} as your search results.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; In our case the indexing failures were caused by disk/filesystem errors.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Regards,
&gt;&gt; Vitaly
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

