---
title: "Re: secondary indexes limit"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-10-21T07:46:16-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12715"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12712"
author_name: "Russell Brown"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-10-21T07:46:16-07:00
---


Hi Louis-Philippe,
It costs to create secondary indexes. Nothing is free.

But I'm not sure what "1000 different secondary indexes" means. When you add 
secondary indexes we store the name of the index and the value it indexes as 
part of the object metadata and on disk in an index.

I'm sure our ProServe and CSE could give better examples, but one customer I've 
worked with stores ~20 indexes per object, and has ~60million objects. If you 
means 1000s of different indexes per key, yes, that would make reading and 
writing those keys slower, and would add some overhead to communications 
channels. If you mean 1000s of indexes across your dataset, not an issue, if 
you mean 1000s of index entries, not an issue.

Does that answer your question?

Your previous question, "how many index keys?" depends on how big your cluster 
is, how big your disks are and all the things that determine how much data you 
can store, as indexes are just data too.

Would you care to share some more of your use case or intended use so I can 
help you decide if Riak is suitable?

Cheers

Russell

On 21 Oct 2013, at 15:13, Louis-Philippe Perron  wrote:

&gt; I had heard from a possibly unfounded source that creating over 1000 
&gt; different secondary indexes could place a burden on cluster performance. Can 
&gt; anyone confirm that?
&gt; 
&gt; L-P
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Fri, Oct 18, 2013 at 5:55 PM, Alexander Sicular  wrote:
&gt; I think that's just a memory limit.
&gt; 
&gt; mo 2i mo problems.
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; @siculars
&gt; http://siculars.posthaven.com
&gt; 
&gt; Sent from my iRotaryPhone
&gt; 
&gt; &gt; On Oct 18, 2013, at 16:44, Louis-Philippe Perron  wrote:
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Hi,
&gt; &gt; this question has probably been answered already, still I can't get to it, 
&gt; &gt; so,
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; What is the maximum number of unique secondary indexe keys a riak cluster 
&gt; &gt; can manage before running into trouble?
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; thanks!
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; L-P
&gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

