---
title: "Re: Unable to use riak-ts shell"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2017-01-12T06:38:03-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg17846"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg17838"
author_name: "Ricardo Mayerhofer"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2017-01-12T06:38:03-08:00
---


Hi Gordon,
It was a good addition! Very descriptive, you can walk through the
extensions and commands without having to check to the docs. However the
concept of extension is not common and may cause confusion IMO. An option
would be just have it as commands and categories.

Ricardo


On Fri, Jan 6, 2017 at 2:26 PM, Gordon Guthrie  wrote:

&gt; Ricardo
&gt;
&gt; There is a comprehensive help facility which you can explore by typing:
&gt; riak-shell&gt;help;
&gt;
&gt; Your feedback on that, and if it is useful would be appreciated…
&gt;
&gt; Gordon
&gt;
&gt; On 6 Jan 2017, at 16:12, Ricardo Mayerhofer  wrote:
&gt;
&gt; That's was it. I had my config file pointing to riak@127.0.0.1 and
&gt; changed to point to the node name riak@ip-adress. It worked fine.
&gt;
&gt; Thanks.
&gt;
&gt; On Fri, Jan 6, 2017 at 1:01 PM, Brett Hazen wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Ricardo -
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; What does your riak\_shell.config file look like? How many nodes are in
&gt;&gt; your cluster? Guessing there might be some hostname resolution issues.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Here's the documentation on the config file: http://docs.basho.com/ri
&gt;&gt; ak/ts/1.5.0/using/riakshell/#configuration
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Cheers,
&gt;&gt; Brett
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On January 6, 2017 at 6:14:17 AM, Ricardo Mayerhofer (
&gt;&gt; ricardo....@gmail.com) wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi all,
&gt;&gt; I'm unable to use Riak TS 1.5 shell in Ubuntu 14.04 deploy. When I try to
&gt;&gt; star riak-shell the following messages appear:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; root@ip-192-168-5-177:/var/lib/riak# riak-shell
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Erlang R16B02\_basho10 (erts-5.10.3) [source] [64-bit] [smp:4:4]
&gt;&gt; [async-threads:10] [hipe] [kernel-poll:false] [frame-pointer]
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; version "riak\_shell 1.5/sql compiler 
&gt;&gt; 320523031941664944417524937300681317050",
&gt;&gt; use 'quit;' or 'q;' to exit or 'help;' for help
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Disconnected...
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; riak-shell(1)&gt;CREATE TABLE Expectations
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; riak-shell(1)&gt;(
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; ...
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; riak-shell(1)&gt;);
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Not connected to riak
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Riak seems ok:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; root@ip-192-168-5-177:/var/lib/riak# sudo riak ping
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; pong
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Any idea of what's going on? Thanks!
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; Ricardo Mayerhofer
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Ricardo Mayerhofer
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;


-- 
Ricardo Mayerhofer
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

