---
title: "Re: Riak VS Graph Databases"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-08-29T08:21:14-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14813"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14810"
author_name: "Guido Medina"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-08-29T08:21:14-07:00
---


In a dream world my friend, we have Riak, PostgreSQL and Solr and might 
have to include a sort of query-able Big Table implementation in the 
future like Cassandra (we will try to avoid this last thing until we can't)


Your Graph DB will have trade off versus KV fetch in general, I don't 
think you have the tools you need in Riak to find the relationships per 
category nor the Riak advantages to do quick KV operations (data storage 
wise) nor cluster replication.


It won't be that simple without many trade off to build an homogeneous 
system.


Guido.

On 29/08/14 16:06, Alex De la rosa wrote:

Hi Guido,

This could be a solution; although I would try to do it in an 
homogeneous system where only one NoSQL DB would be around if possible :)


Thanks!
Alex


On Fri, Aug 29, 2014 at 5:03 PM, Guido Medina 
&gt; wrote:


 Maybe what you are looking for is a combination of both, say, your
 KV data in Riak with a combination of background processes able to
 build the necessary searching graphs in Neo4J, in such way your
 data is secure in a Riak cluster and searchable on several Neo4J
 servers.

 That's just an idea which might be not do-able, hope it helps,

 Guido.


 On 29/08/14 15:54, Alex De la rosa wrote:

 Hi there,

 For some time already I have in mind building a kind of social
 network myself. Is pretty ambitious project although it doesn't
 have in mind to be a new facebook; but still data will be quite
 big and complex.

 I like Riak and I had been following since version 0.14, and new
 additions in Riak 2.0 seem to help a lot in how to model the
 data; although relationships will be unavoidable.

 Some friends suggested me to use Graph Databases instead. How
 would Riak compare to Graph Databases for this use case? Is it
 doable to create a social network entirely from Riak? Or may not
 be recommended?

 Thanks!
 Alex


 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
 riak-users mailing list
 riak-users@lists.basho.com 
 http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com





\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

