---
title: "Re: Rebuilding AAE hashes - small question"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-04-10T06:24:08-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14047"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14041"
author_name: "Engel Sanchez"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-04-10T06:24:08-07:00
---


Hey there. There are a couple of things to keep in mind when deleting
invalid AAE trees from the 1.4.3-1.4.7 series after upgrading to 1.4.8:

\* If AAE is disabled, you don't have to stop the node to delete the data in
the anti\_entropy directories
\* If AAE is enabled, deleting the AAE data in a rolling manner may trigger
an avalanche of read repairs between nodes with the bad trees and nodes
with good trees as the data seems to diverge.

If your nodes are already up, with AAE enabled and with old incorrect trees
in the mix, there is a better way. You can dynamically disable AAE with
some console commands. At that point, without stopping the nodes, you can
delete all AAE data across the cluster. At a convenient time, re-enable
AAE. I say convenient because all trees will start to rebuild, and that
can be problematic in an overloaded cluster. Doing this over the weekend
might be a good idea unless your cluster can take the extra load.

To dynamically disable AAE from the Riak console, you can run this command:

&gt; riak\_core\_util:rpc\_every\_member\_ann(riak\_kv\_entropy\_manager, disable, [],
60000).

and enable with the similar:

&gt; riak\_core\_util:rpc\_every\_member\_ann(riak\_kv\_entropy\_manager, enable, [],
60000).

That last number is just a timeout for the RPC operation. I hope this
saves you some extra load on your clusters.


On Wed, Apr 9, 2014 at 11:02 AM, Luke Bakken  wrote:

&gt; Hi Guido,
&gt;
&gt; I specifically meant riak-admin transfers however using riak-admin
&gt; wait-for-service riak\_kv riak@node is a good first step before waiting
&gt; for transfers.
&gt;
&gt; Thanks!
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Luke Bakken
&gt; CSE
&gt; lbak...@basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Wed, Apr 9, 2014 at 7:54 AM, Guido Medina wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; What do you mean by "wait for handoff" to finish?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Are you referring to wait for the service to be fully started? i.e.
&gt;&gt; "riak-admin wait-for-service riak\_kv riak@node"
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Or do you mean to check for "riak-admin transfers" on the started node
&gt;&gt; and wait until those handoffs/transfers are gone?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Guido.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On 09/04/14 15:46, Luke Bakken wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi Guido,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; That is the correct process. Be sure to use the rolling restart
&gt;&gt; procedure when restarting nodes (i.e. wait for handoff to finish before
&gt;&gt; moving on).
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; Luke Bakken
&gt;&gt; CSE
&gt;&gt; lbak...@basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Wed, Apr 9, 2014 at 6:34 AM, Guido Medina wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Hi,
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; If nodes are already upgraded to 1.4.8 (and they went all the way from
&gt;&gt;&gt; 1.4.0 to 1.4.8 including AAE buggy versions)
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Will the following command (as root) on Ubuntu Servers 12.04:
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak stop; rm -Rf /var/lib/riak/anti\_entropy/\*; riak start
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; executed on each node be enough to rebuild AAE hashes?
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Regards,
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Guido.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

