---
title: "Re: Riak Search and Yokozuna Backup Strategy"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-01-21T10:26:15-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13432"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13419"
author_name: "Sean McKibben"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-01-21T10:26:15-08:00
---


+1 LevelDB backup information is important to us


On Jan 20, 2014, at 4:38 PM, Elias Levy  wrote:

&gt; Anyone from Basho care to comment?
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Thu, Jan 16, 2014 at 10:19 AM, Elias Levy  
&gt; wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; Also, while LevelDB appears to be largely an append only format, the 
&gt; documentation currently does not recommend live backups, presumably because 
&gt; there are some issues that can crop up if restoring a DB that was not cleanly 
&gt; shutdown. 
&gt; 
&gt; I am guessing those issues are the ones documented as edge cases here: 
&gt; https://github.com/basho/leveldb/wiki/repair-notes
&gt; 
&gt; That said, it looks like as of 1.4 those are largely cleared up, at least 
&gt; from what I gather from that page, and that one must only ensure that data is 
&gt; copied in a certain order and that you run the LevelDB repair algorithm when 
&gt; retiring the files. 
&gt; 
&gt; So is the backup documentation on LevelDB still correct? Will Basho will 
&gt; enable hot backups on LevelDB backends any time soon?
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Thu, Jan 16, 2014 at 10:05 AM, Elias Levy  
&gt; wrote:
&gt; How well does Riak Search play with backups? Can you backup the Riak Search 
&gt; data without bringing the node down?
&gt; 
&gt; The Riak documentation backup page is completely silent on Riak Search and 
&gt; its merge\_index backend.
&gt; 
&gt; And looking forward, what is the backup strategy for Yokozuna? Will it make 
&gt; use of Solr's Replication Handler, or something more lower level? Will the 
&gt; node need to be offline to backup it up?
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

