---
title: "Re: Understanding read_repairs"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-03-01T09:47:48-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10302"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg10280"
author_name: "Russell Brown"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-03-01T09:47:48-08:00
---



On 1 Mar 2013, at 17:39, Belai Beshah  wrote:

&gt; Nothing fancy really the set method throws an exception 
&gt; "com.basho.riak.client.RiakRetryFailedException: java.io.EOFException". Tried 
&gt; to find anything that could explain it in the error or console logs but 
&gt; nothing.

Some questions:

Are you using the PB client? Do you have anything in your riak logs that points 
at a pb socket crash? What version of the RJC are you using, please?

Cheers

Russell

&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; From: Kresten Krab Thorup [k...@trifork.com]
&gt; Sent: Friday, March 01, 2013 5:40 AM
&gt; To: Belai Beshah
&gt; Cc: Jared Morrow; riak-users@lists.basho.com; Russell Brown
&gt; Subject: Re: Understanding read\_repairs
&gt; 
&gt; Interesting. What does the failure look like?
&gt; 
&gt; Kresten
&gt; 
&gt; On Feb 27, 2013, at 11:25 PM, Belai Beshah 
&gt; &gt; wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; I see my post is not clear, the 0.1% is a get/set failure not slowdown. We 
&gt; will have been ok with a slow response but a failed response from the AAE was 
&gt; not something we can tolerate. Since the Java client by deafult does 3 
&gt; retiries I didn't see any point in adding more retries to see if it works 
&gt; with more.
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; From: Jared Morrow [ja...@basho.com]
&gt; Sent: Wednesday, February 27, 2013 2:21 PM
&gt; To: Belai Beshah
&gt; Cc: Russell Brown; 
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; Subject: Re: Understanding read\_repairs
&gt; 
&gt; Belai,
&gt; 
&gt; Active Anti-Entropy is doing work building trees and checking data, so it 
&gt; will slow down gets/puts slightly. If you can't accept the slight 
&gt; performance hit, disabling it is the right choice. In our testing, if you 
&gt; use eLevelDB, 1.3.0 with AAE enabled is faster than 1.2.1 without AAE in most 
&gt; cases due to the other speedups added to eLevelDB in 1.3.0. Since Bitcask 
&gt; runs about the limit of what a filesystem can handle, AAE definitely shows a 
&gt; slight performance hit since it is accessing the filesystem as well.
&gt; 
&gt; Glad to hear the patch solved your other issues.
&gt; 
&gt; -Jared
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Wed, Feb 27, 2013 at 1:13 PM, Belai Beshah 
&gt; &gt; wrote:
&gt; Patch worked good on 1.3, no more continuous read repairs. However, we 
&gt; started seeing problems with Set/Get of about 0.1% which was not there in the 
&gt; 1.2 release. Since this happens even without the patch on a clean 1.3 
&gt; install we narrowed it down to being Active Anti-Entropy since it looks like 
&gt; it is always actively fixing data, may it is our write and read immediately 
&gt; pattern or the fact that we have only a single 4TB disk behind each node and 
&gt; they can't keep up. With Active Anti-Entropy turned off all our tests passed 
&gt; and performance returned to 1.2 levels without any read repairs. For now we 
&gt; are happy to continue our tests with Active Anti-Entropy turned off but it 
&gt; will be great if we can get some pointer from the experts that could explain 
&gt; the behavior we saw. Thanks you guys for the help.
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; From: Jared Morrow [ja...@basho.com]
&gt; Sent: Friday, February 22, 2013 11:56 AM
&gt; To: Belai Beshah
&gt; Cc: Russell Brown; 
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; Subject: Re: Understanding read\_repairs
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; Belai,
&gt; 
&gt; One other option is to use our "basho-patches" functionality. We use it to 
&gt; run new code on current installations where sending a new .beam file is 
&gt; easier than remaking the packages or compiling from source. On your ubuntu 
&gt; system using our packages, the folder should be in 
&gt; /usr/lib/riak/lib/basho-patches.
&gt; 
&gt; To do this you just need the one file changed in the PR pointed to by Russell.
&gt; 
&gt; Here are the steps to make that happen:
&gt; 
&gt; \* Install Erlang R15B01: 
&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/tutorials/installation/Installing-Erlang/
&gt; \* Get riak\_kv: git clone 
&gt; git://github.com/basho/riak\_kv.git
&gt; \* compile riak\_kv with just 'make'
&gt; \* copy the resulting .beam file in the ebin folder to the machines you need 
&gt; the new file:scp ebin/riak\_kv\_vnode.beam 
&gt; user@myriaknode:/usr/lib/riak/lib/basho-patches
&gt; \* stop each node and restart them one at a time
&gt; \* If you want to convince yourself you are using the new code, you can do a 
&gt; 'riak attach' to attach to the node and run code:which('riak\_kv\_vnode'). 
&gt; (Don't forget the '.' at the end)
&gt; 
&gt; For example on my dev install here is the command before the file is in 
&gt; basho-patches:
&gt; 
&gt; (dev2@127.0.0.1)1&gt; code:which('riak\_kv\_vnode').
&gt; ".../lib/riak\_kv-1.3.0/ebin/riak\_kv\_vnode.beam"
&gt; 
&gt; Here is the command after I put the .beam in the basho-patches directory:
&gt; 
&gt; (dev2@127.0.0.1)1&gt; code:which('riak\_kv\_vnode').
&gt; ".../lib/basho-patches/riak\_kv\_vnode.beam"
&gt; 
&gt; Notice the path of the code changed from .../riak\_kv-1.3.0/... to 
&gt; .../basho-patches/...
&gt; 
&gt; That might seem like a lot of work, but it is a really handy and useful 
&gt; trick/skill that you might use quite a bit down the road.
&gt; 
&gt; Hope that helps,
&gt; Jared
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Fri, Feb 22, 2013 at 10:25 AM, Belai Beshah 
&gt; &gt; wrote:
&gt; Thanks Russel, that looks like exactly the problem we saw. I have never built 
&gt; riak from source before but I will give it a try it this weekend.
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; From: Russell Brown [russell.br...@me.com]
&gt; Sent: Friday, February 22, 2013 1:24 AM
&gt; To: Belai Beshah
&gt; Cc: riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; Subject: Re: Understanding read\_repairs
&gt; 
&gt; Hi,
&gt; Thanks for trying Riak.
&gt; 
&gt; On 21 Feb 2013, at 23:48, Belai Beshah 
&gt; &gt; wrote:
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Hi All,
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; We are evaluating Riak to see if it can be used to cache large blobs of 
&gt;&gt; data. Here is our test cluster setup:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; • six Ubuntu LTS 12.04 dedicated nodes with 8 core 2.6 Ghz CPU, 32 GB 
&gt;&gt; RAM, 3.6T disk
&gt;&gt; • {pb\_backlog, 64},
&gt;&gt; • {ring\_creation\_size, 256},
&gt;&gt; • {default\_bucket\_props, [{n\_val, 2}, 
&gt;&gt; {allow\_mult,false},{last\_write\_wins,true}]},
&gt;&gt; • using bitcask as the backend
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Everything else default except the above. There is an HAProxy load balancer 
&gt;&gt; infront of the nodes that the clients talk too configured according to the 
&gt;&gt; basho wiki. Due to the nature of the application we are integrating we do 
&gt;&gt; about 1200/s writes of approximately 40-50KB each and read them back almost 
&gt;&gt; immediately. We noticed a lot of read repairs and since that was one of the 
&gt;&gt; things that could indicate performance problem we go worried. So we wrote a 
&gt;&gt; simple java client application that simulates our use case. The test program 
&gt;&gt; is dead simple:
&gt;&gt; • generate keys using random UUID and value using Apache commons 
&gt;&gt; RandomStringUtils
&gt;&gt; • create a thread pool of 5 and store key/value using “bucket.store()”
&gt;&gt; • read the values back using “bucket.fetch()” multiple times
&gt;&gt; I could provide the spike code if needed. What we noticed is that we get a 
&gt;&gt; lot of read repairs all over the place. We even made it use a single thread 
&gt;&gt; to read/write, played with the write/read quorum and even put a delay of 5 
&gt;&gt; minutes between the writes before the reads start to give the cluster time 
&gt;&gt; to be eventually consistent. Nothing helps, we always see a lot of read 
&gt;&gt; repairs, sometime as many as the number of inserts.
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; It sounds like you are experiencing this bug 
&gt; https://github.com/basho/riak\_kv/pull/334
&gt; 
&gt; It is fixed in master, but it doesn't look like it made it into 1.3.0. If 
&gt; you're ok with building from source, I tried it and a patch from 
&gt; 8895d2877576af2441bee755028df1a6cf2174c7 goes cleanly onto 1.3.0.
&gt; 
&gt; Cheers
&gt; 
&gt; Russell
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; The good thing is that in all of these tests we have not seen any read 
&gt;&gt; failures. Performance is also not bad, a few maxs here and there we don't 
&gt;&gt; like but 90% looks good. Even when we killed a node, the reads are still 
&gt;&gt; successful.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; We are wondering what the expected ratio of read repairs is and what is a 
&gt;&gt; reasonable time for the cluster not to restore to read\_repair to fulfill a 
&gt;&gt; read request or is there something we are missing in our setup.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Thanks
&gt;&gt; Belai
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

