---
title: "Re: Invoking Python script as part of a M/R job?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-09-26T05:04:15-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12412"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12408"
author_name: "jeffrey k eliasen"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-09-26T05:04:15-07:00
---


Hmmm, that's interesting. I don't quite understand why it works, but it's a 
step in the right direction. It surprises me that there isn't an easy way to 
invoke an external script from within a job.

-- 

jeffrey k eliasen

Find and follow me on:
Blog: http://jeff.jke.net
Twitter: http://twitter.com/jeffreyeliasen
Facebook: http://facebook.com/jeffrey.eliasen

On Sep 26, 2013, at 17:41 , Russell Brown  wrote:

&gt; Not that it is something that answers your immediate need, I just thought I'd 
&gt; point you at this post where Brian Lee Yung Rowe attempts to integrate Riak 
&gt; MapReduce and R.
&gt; 
&gt; http://cartesianfaith.com/2011/08/17/teaser-running-r-as-a-mapreduce-job-from-riak/
&gt; 
&gt; On 26 Sep 2013, at 05:33, jeffrey k eliasen  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; I'm trying to do some image processing using OpenCV. Later I'll be doing 
&gt;&gt; some video processing as well. In a future project I will be using R to do 
&gt;&gt; deep analysis on some data I'm collecting. In all these cases, what I want 
&gt;&gt; to do is very simple with external languages but very hard with both Erlang 
&gt;&gt; and Javascript.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; What I want to do is simply invoke an external script on each element in a 
&gt;&gt; bucket in the general case so that I can use advanced external tools in an 
&gt;&gt; arbitrary manner. I was told by someone at Basho a long time ago (about a 
&gt;&gt; year, which is a long time in internet years) that this could be done by 
&gt;&gt; invoking scripts from Erlang, but I haven't heard back from him since then 
&gt;&gt; and was hoping someone on the list could point me at an example 
&gt;&gt; demonstrating this.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; -- 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; jeffrey k eliasen
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Find and follow me on:
&gt;&gt; Blog: http://jeff.jke.net
&gt;&gt; Twitter: http://twitter.com/jeffreyeliasen
&gt;&gt; Facebook: http://facebook.com/jeffrey.eliasen
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On Sep 26, 2013, at 10:41 , Luke Bakken  wrote:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Hi Jeff,
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Erlang and Javascript are the only two supported "in process"
&gt;&gt;&gt; languages for map/reduce. Can you explain the process or provide the
&gt;&gt;&gt; python you want to use and perhaps someone on the list could help out
&gt;&gt;&gt; translating it to erlang?
&gt;&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt;&gt; Luke Bakken
&gt;&gt;&gt; CSE
&gt;&gt;&gt; lbak...@basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; On Wed, Sep 25, 2013 at 4:47 PM, Jeffrey Eliasen  wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; I would like to write a job that invokes a python script to execute the
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; processing of each node in a bucket. I can't find a way to do this using
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Javascript and I don't really know Erlang well enough to make this work...
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; is there a sample piece of code somewhere that demonstrates this?
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Thanks in advance!
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; jeff
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

