---
title: "Re: Building a Development Environment: Can't PUT image"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-02-27T12:42:03-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10278"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg10276"
author_name: "OJ Reeves"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-02-27T12:42:03-08:00
---


Hi there,

I think the issue is simply that you're not adding the '@' symbol before
the file name in your cURL call:

curl -XPUT http://127.0.0.1:xxxx/riak/images/1.jpg \
 -H "Content-type: image/jpeg" \
 --data-binary \*@\*yyyy.jpg

Give that a crack.
OJ

On Thu, Feb 28, 2013 at 5:57 AM, Chas. Munat  wrote:

&gt; I'm following the Building a Development Environment part of the
&gt; tutorial. I have a four node cluster. By viewing the app.config files, I've
&gt; determined that the individual nodes respond on ports 10018, 10028, 10038,
&gt; and 10048. But I can't see anywhere where the port used to address the
&gt; cluster as a whole is provided.
&gt;
&gt; I have tried putting an image using the provide CURL call:
&gt;
&gt; curl -XPUT http://127.0.0.1:xxxx/riak/images/1.jpg \
&gt; -H "Content-type: image/jpeg" \
&gt; --data-binary yyyy.jpg
&gt;
&gt; Substituting 10018 for xxxx, and the filename of my image for yyyy. I'm
&gt; running this from the dev directory and the image is in the same directory.
&gt; I've tried it with a ./ to be sure, and have even tried it with sudo
&gt; thinking it might be permissions.
&gt;
&gt; The call to CURL returns without comment. If I use a bad port, it returns
&gt; an error. When I go to http://127.0.0.1:xxxx/riak/images/1.jpg substituting
&gt; the same port for xxxx, I get a broken image link. So it's trying to put
&gt; the image there, but the image isn't being copied.
&gt;
&gt; What am I doing wrong? And how can I figure out which port to use?
&gt;
&gt; TIA!
&gt;
&gt; Chas. Munat
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;


-- 

OJ Reeves
+61 431 952 586
http://buffered.io/
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

