---
title: "Re: pagination over 2i indexes in java"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-02-11T21:37:42-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13646"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13645"
author_name: "joe dude"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-02-11T21:37:42-08:00
---


Yeah, i looked at your code and it looks very similar to what i'm doing. The 
difference is i'm just talking to the client directly:

StreamingOperation result = rawClient.fetchIndex(query);


And rawClient is a "PBClusterClient". Might that have something to do with it?



On Tuesday, February 11, 2014 5:00 PM, Dave Rusek  wrote:
 
Joe,

Sorry, I wanted to get that email out before I stepped out. The specific test I 
added is here:

https://github.com/basho/riak-java-client/blob/1.4.x-develop/src/test/java/com/basho/riak/client/itest/ITestBucket.java#L280

Does this represent your use case? If not, do you happen to have a failing test 
I could take a look at? 

Thanks!

-- 
Dave Rusek
Software Engineer
Basho Technologies
@davidjrusek

On February 11, 2014 at 5:33:57 PM, Dave Rusek (dru...@basho.com) wrote:
Joe,

I added an integration test to the 1.4.x-develop and the 1.4.4
branch of the client and tried them against the latest 1.4 branch
of Riak but was not able to reproduce your issue.

https://github.com/basho/riak-java-client/tree/1.4.x-develop

-- 
Dave Rusek
Software Engineer 
Basho Technologies
@davidjrusek

On February 11, 2014 at 5:21:11 PM, Brian
Roach (ro...@basho.com)
wrote:
---------- Forwarded message ----------
&gt;From: joe dude 
&gt;Date: Tue, Feb 11, 2014 at 2:15 PM
&gt;Subject: Re: pagination over 2i indexes in java
&gt;To: Brian Roach 
&gt;Cc: "riak-users@lists.basho.com"

&gt;
&gt;
&gt;I'm using 1.4.4, and creating a PBClusterClient.
&gt;
&gt;Thanks.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;On Tuesday, February 11, 2014 11:03 AM, Brian Roach
 wrote:
&gt;Hi Joe -
&gt;
&gt;What version of the Riak Java client are you using, and which
protocol
&gt;(PB or HTTP)?
&gt;
&gt;Will take a look at it.
&gt;
&gt;Thanks!
&gt;- Roach
&gt;
&gt;On Tue, Feb 11, 2014 at 11:50 AM, joe dude
 wrote:
&gt;&gt; Hi, trying to figure out how to use the java client to do 2i
index queries
&gt;&gt; with pagination.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I can issue the query with max\_results and get back exactly
the number that
&gt;&gt; i asked for, but the continuation value in the returned
StreamingOperation
&gt;&gt; object is null.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; In contrast, i get pagination to work just fine using the
examples from:
&gt;&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/dev/using/2i/
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I'm using:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; public StreamingOperation
fetchIndex(IndexSpec indexSpec)
&gt;&gt; throws IOException
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; It's as if i'm missing something when building IndexSpec, but
not sure what.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thx.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

