---
title: "[ANN] JavaScript Riak REPL"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-06-05T06:14:40-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11222"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg11214"
author_name: "Pedro Teixeira"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-06-05T06:14:40-07:00
---


Hi,

Just published a Node.js-based JavaScript REPL for talking to Riak:

https://github.com/CrowdProcess/riak-repl#readme

It's a fairly recent small project, but I think this is a missing tool if you 
use Riak.
Still some improvements to do, but it should be fully operational.

(riak-repl uses riak-pb (https://github.com/CrowdProcess/riak-pb) underneath, 
which uses protocol buffers to talk to Riak). 

Enjoy!

-- 
Pedro


On Tuesday, June 4, 2013 at 10:47 AM, Pedro Teixeira wrote:

&gt; 
&gt; Hi Mark,
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; CrowdProcess is a web-based browser-powered distributed computing platform.
&gt; 
&gt; We harvest computing power from the browsers of the viewers of our partner 
&gt; websites and make them available to our users and clients so they can do all 
&gt; kinds of awesome stuff: forest fire behavioral prediction, cancer therapy 
&gt; research, genome sequencing, etc. On top of that we want to be an alternative 
&gt; revenue source for websites by sharing our revenue in proportion to the 
&gt; processing power they're visitors allow them to provide
&gt; 
&gt; Customer computational data can be very volumous and by using Riak we can 
&gt; efficiently scale out our data store without incurring in service down time. 
&gt; Given the nature of some of the computational tasks we handle, having the 
&gt; high availability that Riak gives us at the data store layer is a big 
&gt; advantage. Also, by tuning the Riak CAP controls, we can adjust the 
&gt; consistency and performance trade-offs according to our application needs.
&gt; 
&gt; -- 
&gt; Pedro
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Tuesday, June 4, 2013 at 12:46 AM, Mark Phillips wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; &gt; Hey Pedro, 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; Thanks for passing this along. I just opened a PR [0] to add it to the Riak 
&gt; &gt; Docs (along with the code Troy Malhese just released [1]).
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; Which reminds me - if anyone else has code that should be on the community 
&gt; &gt; projects page, don't hesitate to add it. 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; At the risk of taking this totally off-topic, can you talk a bit about how 
&gt; &gt; CrowdProcess is using the client/Riak? "We're turning the internet into a 
&gt; &gt; super computer" sounds pretty ambitious. I'm mostly curious how Riak plays 
&gt; &gt; into that. :) 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; Mark 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; [0] https://github.com/basho/basho\_docs/pull/418
&gt; &gt; [1] https://github.com/natural/zukai
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; On Mon, Jun 3, 2013 at 1:29 AM, Pedro Teixeira  &gt; (mailto:pedro.teixe...@gmail.com)&gt; wrote:
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; Riak-pb (https://github.com/CrowdProcess/riak-pb) is a Riak Node.js 
&gt; &gt; &gt; client module that uses Protocol Buffers (instead of HTTP) to talk to 
&gt; &gt; &gt; Riak. It has the following features:
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; Automatically reconnects if disconnected
&gt; &gt; &gt; Can be configured with an array of nodes, load-balancing between them
&gt; &gt; &gt; Uses connection pooling, using many connections in parallel to speed up 
&gt; &gt; &gt; concurrent requests
&gt; &gt; &gt; Automatically retries if client gets disconnected during request
&gt; &gt; &gt; Provides a streaming interface for when Riak uses streaming replies
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; Riak-pb is entirely written in JavaScript, using protobuf.js 
&gt; &gt; &gt; (https://npmjs.org/package/protobuf.js) to encode and decode protocol 
&gt; &gt; &gt; buffers.
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; (Because it makes use of Streams2, Riak-pb is only compatible with 
&gt; &gt; &gt; Node.js &gt;= 0.10).
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; Enjoy!
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; -Pedro
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
&gt; &gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; 

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

