---
title: "Re: Solr search performance"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2016-09-21T07:49:30-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg17661"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg17655"
author_name: "sean mcevoy"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2016-09-21T07:49:30-07:00
---


Hi Fred,

Thanks for the pointer! 'cursorMark' is a lot more performant alright,
though apparently it doesn't suit our use case.

I've written a loop function using OTP's httpc that reads each page, gets
the cursorMark and repeats, and it returns all 147 pages with consistent
times in the 40-60ms bracket which is an excellent improvement!

I would have been asking about the effort involved in making the protocol
buffers client support this, but instead our GUI guys insist that they need
to request a page number as sometimes they want to start in the middle of a
set of data.

So I'm almost back to square one.
Can you shed any light on the internal workings of SOLR that produce the
slow-down in my original question?
I'm hoping I can find a way to restructure my index data without having to
change the higher-level API's that I support.

Cheers,
//Sean.


On Mon, Sep 19, 2016 at 10:00 PM, Fred Dushin  wrote:

&gt; All great questions, Sean.
&gt;
&gt; A few things. First off, for result sets that are that large, you are
&gt; probably going to want to use Solr cursor marks [1], which are supported in
&gt; the current version of Solr we ship. Riak allows queries using cursor
&gt; marks through the HTTP interface. At present, it does not support cursors
&gt; using the protobuf API, due to some internal limitations of the server-side
&gt; protobuf library, but we do hope to fix that in the future.
&gt;
&gt; Secondly, we have found sorting with distributed queries to be far more
&gt; performant using Solr 4.10.4. Currently released versions of Riak use Solr
&gt; 4.7, but as you can see on github [2], Solr 4.10.4 support has been merged
&gt; into the develop-2.2 branch, and is in the pipeline for release. I can't
&gt; say when the next version of Riak is that will ship with this version
&gt; because of indeterminacy around bug triage, but it should not be too long.
&gt;
&gt; I would start to look at using cursor marks and measure their relative
&gt; performance in your scenario. My guess is that you should see some
&gt; improvement there.
&gt;
&gt; -Fred
&gt;
&gt; [1] https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/solr/Pagination+of+Results
&gt; [2] https://github.com/basho/yokozuna/commit/
&gt; f64e19cef107d982082f5b95ed598da96fb419b0
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; &gt; On Sep 19, 2016, at 4:48 PM, sean mcevoy  wrote:
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Hi All,
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; We have an index with ~548,000 entries, ~14,000 of which match one of
&gt; our queries.
&gt; &gt; We read these in a paginated search and the first page (of 100 hits)
&gt; returns quickly in ~70ms.
&gt; &gt; This response time seems to increase exponentially as we walk through
&gt; the pages:
&gt; &gt; the 4th page takes ~200ms,
&gt; &gt; the 8th page takes ~1200ms
&gt; &gt; the 12th page takes ~2100ms
&gt; &gt; the 16th page takes ~6100ms
&gt; &gt; the 20th page takes ~24000ms
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; And by the time we're searching for the 22nd page it regularly times out
&gt; at the default 60 seconds.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; I have a good unsderstanding of riak KV internals but absolutely nothing
&gt; of Lucene which I think is what's most relevant here. If anyone in the know
&gt; can point me towards any relevant resource or can explain what's happening
&gt; I'd be much obliged :-)
&gt; &gt; As I would also be if anyone with experience of using Riak/Lucene can
&gt; tell me:
&gt; &gt; - Is 500K a crazy number of entries to put into one index?
&gt; &gt; - Is 14K a crazy number of entries to expect to be returned?
&gt; &gt; - Are there any methods we can use to make the search time more constant
&gt; across the full search?
&gt; &gt; I read one blog post on inlining but it was a bit old & not very obvious
&gt; how to implement using riakc\_pb\_socket calls.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; And out of curiosity, do we not traverse the full range of hits for each
&gt; page? I naively thought that because I'm sorting the returned values we'd
&gt; have to get them all first and then sort, but the response times suggests
&gt; otherwise. Does Lucene store the data sorted by each field just in case a
&gt; query asks for it? Or what other magic is going on?
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; For the technical details, we use the "\_yz\_default" schema and all the
&gt; fields stored are strings:
&gt; &gt; - entry\_id\_s: unique within the DB, the aim of the query is to gather a
&gt; list of these
&gt; &gt; - type\_s: has one of 2 values
&gt; &gt; - sub\_category\_id\_s: in the query described above all 14K hits will
&gt; match on this, in the DB of ~500K entries there are ~43K different values
&gt; for this field, withe each category typically having 2-6 sub categories
&gt; &gt; - category\_id\_s: not matched in this query, in the DB of ~500K entries
&gt; there are ~13K different values for this field
&gt; &gt; - status\_s: has one of 2 values, in the query described baove all hits
&gt; will have the value "active"
&gt; &gt; - user\_id\_s: unique within the DB but not matched in this query
&gt; &gt; - first\_name\_s: almost unique within the DB, this query will sort by
&gt; this field
&gt; &gt; - last\_name\_s: almost unique within the DB, this query will sort by this
&gt; field
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; This search query looks like:
&gt; &gt; &lt;&lt;"sub\_category\_id\_s:test\_1 AND status\_s:active AND
&gt; type\_s:sub\_category"&gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Our options parameter has the sort directive:
&gt; &gt; {sort, &lt;&lt;"first\_name\_s asc, last\_name\_s asc"&gt;&gt;}
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; The query was run on a 5-node cluster with n\_val of 3.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Thanks in advance fo rany pointers!
&gt; &gt; //Sean.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

