---
title: "Re: Random timeouts on Riak"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-12-29T04:08:37-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15418"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15417"
author_name: "Sargun Dhillon"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-12-29T04:08:37-08:00
---


The bucket (type) that you're working with -- what are your
allow\_mult, and last\_write\_wins settings?

On Mon, Dec 29, 2014 at 4:05 AM, Jason Ryan  wrote:
&gt; It seems to move between 4 keys in particular, these keys are actually empty
&gt; at the moment (i.e. an empty JSON document).
&gt;
&gt; CPU utilization is close to zero.
&gt;
&gt; Can't see anything in particular, bar the error message I just posted
&gt; before.
&gt;
&gt; Jason
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On 29 December 2014 at 11:58, Ciprian Manea  wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi Jason,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Are these random timeouts happening for only one key, or is common for
&gt;&gt; more?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; What is the CPU utilisation in the cluster when you're experience these
&gt;&gt; timeouts?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Can you spot anything peculiar in your server's $ dmesg outputs? Any I/O
&gt;&gt; errors there?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Regards,
&gt;&gt; Ciprian
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Mon, Dec 29, 2014 at 1:55 PM, Sargun Dhillon  wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Several things:
&gt;&gt;&gt; 1) I recommend you have a 5-node cluster:
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://basho.com/why-your-riak-cluster-should-have-at-least-five-nodes/
&gt;&gt;&gt; 2) What version of Riak are you using?
&gt;&gt;&gt; 3) What backend(s) are you using?
&gt;&gt;&gt; 4) What's the size of your keyspace?
&gt;&gt;&gt; 5) Are you actively rewriting keys, or writing keys to the cluster?
&gt;&gt;&gt; 6) Do you know how much I/O the cluster is currently doing?
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; On Mon, Dec 29, 2014 at 2:51 AM, Jason Ryan 
&gt;&gt;&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; Hi,
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; We are getting random timeouts from our application (&gt;60seconds) when
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; we try
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; to retrieve a key from our Riak cluster (4 nodes with a load balancer
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; in
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; front of them). Our application just uses the standard REST API to
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; query
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; Riak.
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; We are pretty new to Riak - so would like to understand how best to
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; debug
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; this issue? Is there any good pointers on what to start with? This is
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; our
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; production cluster.
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; Jason
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; This message is for the named person's use only. If you received this
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; message in error, please immediately delete it and all copies and
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; notify the
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; sender. You must not, directly or indirectly, use, disclose,
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; distribute,
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; print, or copy any part of this message if you are not the intended
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; recipient. Any views expressed in this message are those of the
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; individual
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; sender and not Trustev Ltd. Trustev is registered in Ireland No. 516425
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; and
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; trades from 2100 Cork Airport Business Park, Cork, Ireland.
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; This message is for the named person's use only. If you received this
&gt; message in error, please immediately delete it and all copies and notify the
&gt; sender. You must not, directly or indirectly, use, disclose, distribute,
&gt; print, or copy any part of this message if you are not the intended
&gt; recipient. Any views expressed in this message are those of the individual
&gt; sender and not Trustev Ltd. Trustev is registered in Ireland No. 516425 and
&gt; trades from 2100 Cork Airport Business Park, Cork, Ireland.

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

