---
title: "Re: On Ubuntu 13.04 / 64"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-06-18T15:10:31-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11303"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg11301"
author_name: "Jared Morrow"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-06-18T15:10:31-07:00
---


Wheezy didn't exist when 1.3.1 came out, hence the lack of that option on
apt.basho.com.

-Jared




On Tue, Jun 18, 2013 at 11:51 PM, Dave Thomas wrote:

&gt; I saw a similar problem with Debian Wheezy a few weeks ago. Also solved
&gt; by pointing my host to the Squeeze directories on apt.basho.com.
&gt; Somebody should nudge the maintainer of the repo :)
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Tue, Jun 18, 2013 at 2:30 PM, mdr  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks Jared. Will try it out and let you know how it works.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Am new to Riak. I plan to connect from Python and work with it. I noticed
&gt;&gt; there was a Python library to interact with Riak and plan to use it. I
&gt;&gt; assume it is pretty well supported.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; However is there any requirement that Erlang (base or such) needs to be
&gt;&gt; installed? I guess the Riak installation will provide any necessary Erlang
&gt;&gt; needed. Or should I install Erlang from Ubuntu repo first?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Finally - with installing with dpkg -i - will updates and patches to Riak
&gt;&gt; be
&gt;&gt; automatically updated as well when I do an apt-get upgrade? Or will be
&gt;&gt; tuck
&gt;&gt; at the version I installed. Is there a way to install updates from Riak
&gt;&gt; command line or such?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thank for your help.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Mono
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; View this message in context:
&gt;&gt; http://riak-users.197444.n3.nabble.com/On-Ubuntu-13-04-64-tp4028094p4028098.html
&gt;&gt; Sent from the Riak Users mailing list archive at Nabble.com.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

