---
title: "Re: Riak will not work remote from ec2"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-06-13T18:28:24-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11274"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg11273"
author_name: "David Montgomery"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-06-13T18:28:24-07:00
---


Ps

Wen i did riak-admin reip riak@127.0.0.1 r...@xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx

Attempting to restart script through sudo -H -u riak
Backed up existing ring file to
"/var/lib/riak/ring/riak\_core\_ring.default.20130614011624.BAK"
New ring file written to
"/var/lib/riak/ring/riak\_core\_ring.default.20130614012331"



riak ping
Attempting to restart script through sudo -H -u riak
!!!!
!!!! WARNING: ulimit -n is 1024; 4096 is the recommended minimum.
!!!!
Node 'r...@xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx' not responding to pings.


riak start
Attempting to restart script through sudo -H -u riak
!!!!
!!!! WARNING: ulimit -n is 1024; 4096 is the recommended minimum.
!!!!
Riak failed to start within 15 seconds,
see the output of 'riak console' for more information.
If you want to wait longer, set the environment variable
WAIT\_FOR\_ERLANG to the number of seconds to wait.


Where is the missing documentation?






On Fri, Jun 14, 2013 at 9:02 AM, David Montgomery  wrote:

&gt; Hi,
&gt;
&gt; Why will riak not work on ec2 with a single node?
&gt;
&gt; 1) I have my sec groups open for all ports. This should be a no brainier.
&gt;
&gt; 2) Using the python client =
&gt; riak.RiakClient(host=riak\_host,port=8087,transport\_class=riak.transports.pbc.RiakPbcTransport)
&gt; where riak\_host is the public ip address of the machine
&gt;
&gt; 3) I when into app.config vm.args and replaces 127.0.0.1 in the relevant
&gt; places with the public ip address
&gt;
&gt; 4) I restarted riak
&gt;
&gt; 5) Yet..I cant remote write to riak.
&gt;
&gt; I am using the latest version of rial for ubuntu 12.04 installed wit the
&gt; deb package.
&gt;
&gt; So...what is the issue?
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Thanks
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

