---
title: "Re: Querying multiple 2i via Intersections"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-07-27T08:35:09-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11790"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg11788"
author_name: "Jeremiah Peschka"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-07-27T08:35:09-07:00
---


Both Riak Search (currently) and Yokozuna (future) provide the ability to
perform joins of multiple indices on the same bucket objects.

I find it best to think of 2i as an extension of what Riak KV already does
well - fast key based lookups.

Search and Yokozuna provide complex query semantics.

---
Jeremiah Peschka - Founder, Brent Ozar Unlimited
MCITP: SQL Server 2008, MVP
Cloudera Certified Developer for Apache Hadoop


On Sat, Jul 27, 2013 at 11:16 AM, Guido Medina wrote:

&gt; Rohman,
&gt;
&gt; I think the reason for this is that the cluster will have to do the whole
&gt; intersection in memory, 2i only provides queries for 1 single index and
&gt; then return that result to either the client streaming or not, intersection
&gt; indeed will require a MapReduce job to get a hold of both lists and
&gt; intersect it, honestly, I wish that was possible, I think that's why I'm
&gt; learning Erlang at the moment, we all wanted "join" like functionality with
&gt; 2i to be honest but I don't think that is going to happen before version
&gt; 1.5 if ever.
&gt;
&gt; If you noticed, Riak 1.4 added 2i streaming which IMHO is like moving
&gt; farer away from handling results in memory, if you get the point of what I
&gt; mean. Join 2i queries in Riak will be an issue for a long time.
&gt;
&gt; HTH,
&gt;
&gt; Guido.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On 27/07/13 14:20, Antonio Rohman Fernandez wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi there,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I didn't fully check the new release notes yet, but I guess that Riak 1.4
&gt;&gt; doesn't have the ability to query multiple 2i at the same time... how
&gt;&gt; difficult may be to implement a multiple 2i query via their intersecting
&gt;&gt; items in their arrays? Maybe we could have this in future versions?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I normally do this with scripts before doing a MapReduce, if the data I
&gt;&gt; want to look for is having 2 indexes conditions, I get the array of items
&gt;&gt; of each 2i query, then get only the items found on both arrays and use it
&gt;&gt; as a MapReduce input list.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; However, done in my app's side is a bit costly as Riak needs to give me
&gt;&gt; the full items arrays and then I need to process them to find repeated keys.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I really wish for Riak to be able to query multiple 2i soon as it will
&gt;&gt; help a lot.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Merci,
&gt;&gt; Rohman
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Sent from my iPhone
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\*\*\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/\*\*mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_\*\*lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\*\*\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/\*\*mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_\*\*lists.basho.com
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

