---
title: "Re: Yokozuna performance: single large index vs many smaller indexes"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-11-24T09:41:03-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15227"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15212"
author_name: "Eric Redmond"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-11-24T09:41:03-08:00
---


Sorry, worst typo ever.

"Solr can't manage...60k objects" should be "Solr can manage...60k objects"

Eric


On Nov 22, 2014, at 6:13 AM, Eric Redmond  wrote:

&gt; Geoff, comments inline.
&gt; 
&gt; On Nov 13, 2014, at 3:13 PM, Geoff Garbers  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Hi all.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; I've been looking around for a bit with some sort of guidelines as to how 
&gt;&gt; best to structure search indexes within Riak 2.0 - and have yet to come up 
&gt;&gt; with anything that satisfies my questions.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; I came across https://github.com/basho/yokozuna/blob/develop/docs/ADMIN.md, 
&gt;&gt; where it talks about the one-to-one and many-to-one ways of indexing. It 
&gt;&gt; mentions in passing the potential for lower latency of queries and efficient 
&gt;&gt; deletion of index data when using the one-to-one method - without really 
&gt;&gt; mentioning too much about when one method could significantly outweigh the 
&gt;&gt; other in performance.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; However, something I'm still not sure on is when is it considered a good 
&gt;&gt; idea to use multiple indexes, versus one massive index.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; If you'll bear with me, I'll use this simple scenario:
&gt;&gt; I have lists, and I have contacts within these lists. In total, I have 100 
&gt;&gt; million contacts that I am dealing with. Each of them not more than 20KB in 
&gt;&gt; size, and they all follow the exact same JSON object structure. Ignoring 
&gt;&gt; application design for simplicity's sake, let's say I could choose between 
&gt;&gt; the following two ways of storing lists and contacts:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Having two buckets: lists and contacts.
&gt;&gt; All 100 million contacts are stored in the contacts bucket. Each contact 
&gt;&gt; object is linked to its corresponding list through a list\_key property, and 
&gt;&gt; all the contacts are stored in the same single search index.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Having multiple buckets: lists, and for each list, having a separate bucket 
&gt;&gt; contacts\_{listkey}.
&gt;&gt; Using this structure, each contact\_{listkey} bucket would have its own 
&gt;&gt; search index.
&gt;&gt; With these two scenarios in mind; and making the assumption that we're 
&gt;&gt; dealing with 100 million contacts:
&gt;&gt; Which would be the better method of implementing the search indexes?
&gt; If you have 100M contacts, and giving each contacts it's own index might be 
&gt; fine, but note that indexes have their own overhead in both Solr and Riak 
&gt; cluster metadata. I wouldn't go this route if your contact\_listkey measures 
&gt; in the hundreds or thousands.
&gt;&gt; At which point would one solution be far better than the other?
&gt; If your cluster has 100M objects, note that a solr shard wouldn't have 100M 
&gt; objects. Instead, if you had a, say, 10 node cluster, depending on your 
&gt; replication value, a single solr node would have 30M.
&gt;&gt; How much does Yokozuna differ from stock-standard Solr? All the search 
&gt;&gt; results I could find on Solr specifically weren't talking about indexes 
&gt;&gt; greater than 60,000 objects, yet Riak is required to be able to deal with 
&gt;&gt; 100's of millions of rows.
&gt; 
&gt; Solr can't manage far more than 60k objects (I've run 10M on my laptop, 100M 
&gt; per shard is safe, and I hear the tip-top limit per shard is 2 Billion unique 
&gt; terms per index segment due to Lucene's implementation). I think you'll have 
&gt; to experiment with your use-case and hardware, but you shouldn't have a 
&gt; problem.
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Any help at all with this is really appreciated.
&gt;&gt; At some point, I do realise that I will need to set this up for myself, and 
&gt;&gt; performance my own tests on it. However, I was hoping that those currently 
&gt;&gt; using Riak in production might have some more insight into this.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Regards,
&gt;&gt; Geoff
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

