---
title: "Re: Getting all the Keys"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-04-25T10:09:29-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10968"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg10966"
author_name: "Dmitri Zagidulin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-04-25T10:09:29-07:00
---


Hi Chuck,

So there is not currently support for listing keys by just issuing a GET to
/buckets/bucketname/.
Part of the reason for that is - there's many operations to be performed on
the bucket resource -- list keys, get bucket properties, etc. That's why
you have several URLs to specify what you want to do with the bucket --
/buckets/bucketname/keys, /buckets/bucketname/props, etc. (Very much in
keeping with the REST philosophy).

Your best bet, to list keys, is actually the "streaming list keys" method:
/buckets/bucketname/keys?keys=stream

What you definitely DON'T want to do in production, is use the regular list
keys call, /buckets/bucketname/keys?keys=true, which waits to basically
build up a giant JSON array of the keys in memory, on the coordinating
node, and then send the whole thing back in the reply. As a result, it
usually takes way too long, and often ends up eating up all of the memory
on a node (if you have a large enough number of keys) and erroring out.
The only time where the regular, non-streaming list keys operation is
useful is when you're developing on a toy dataset, and want to quickly list
the keys in a bucket via curl or in a browser (streaming list keys doesn't
work in a browser so well).

So, to recap:

1) Listing keys with non-trivial datasets (for use with logical backups,
etc) - use streaming list keys. (keys=stream)

2) Listing keys in a browser or by curl, while developing, with toy
datasets - use non-streaming keys (keys=true).

Dmitri



On Thu, Apr 25, 2013 at 12:38 PM, n6mac41717  wrote:

&gt; I know it's been over two years since this post, and I'm wondering if the
&gt; latest version of Riak has made improvements to list keys--I tried the
&gt; query
&gt; with "keys=true" and I didn't seem to have TSA/octomom-related wait times.
&gt;
&gt; I was originally hoping that I could get a list of keys via the RESTful API
&gt; which led me to this thread. In other words, a GET url/bucket/key will
&gt; indeed return what I shoved into the bucket at that key, but I was hoping
&gt; that a GET url/bucket (I guess to be truly RESTful, I should make the
&gt; bucket
&gt; plural) would return the keys.
&gt;
&gt; Thoughts?
&gt;
&gt; Thanks in advance, Chuck
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Alexander Sicular wrote
&gt; &gt; Hi Thomas,
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; This is a topic that has come up many times. Lemme just hit a couple of
&gt; &gt; high notes in no particular order:
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; - If you must do a list keys op on a bucket, you must must must use
&gt; &gt; "?keys=stream". True will block on the coordinating node until all nodes
&gt; &gt; return their keys. Stream will start sending keys as soon as the first
&gt; &gt; node returns.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; - "list keys" is one of the most expensive native operations you can
&gt; &gt; perform in Riak. Not only does it do a full key scan of all the keys in
&gt; &gt; your bucket, but all the keys in your cluster. It is obnoxiously
&gt; expensive
&gt; &gt; and only more so as the number of keys in your cluster grows. There has
&gt; &gt; been discussions about changing this but everything comes with a cost
&gt; &gt; (more open file descriptors) and I do not believe a decision has been
&gt; made
&gt; &gt; yet.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; -Riak is in no way a relational system. It is, in fact, about as opposite
&gt; &gt; as you can get. Incidentally, "select \*" is generally not recommended in
&gt; &gt; the Kingdom of Relations and regarded as wasteful. You need a bit of a
&gt; &gt; mind shift from relational world to have success with nosql in general
&gt; and
&gt; &gt; Riak in particular.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; -There are no native indices in Riak. By default Riak uses the bitcask
&gt; &gt; backend. Bitcask has many advantages but one disadvantage is that all
&gt; keys
&gt; &gt; (key length + a bit of overhead) must fit in ram.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; -Do not use "?keys=true". Your computer will melt. And then your face.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; -As of Riak 0.14 your m/r can filter on key name. I would highly
&gt; recommend
&gt; &gt; that your data architecture take this into account by using keys that
&gt; have
&gt; &gt; meaningful names. This will allow you to not scan every key in your
&gt; &gt; cluster.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; -Buckets are analogous to relational tables but only just. In Riak, you
&gt; &gt; can think of a bucket as a namespace holder (it is used as part of the
&gt; &gt; default circular hash function) but primarily as a mechanism to
&gt; &gt; differentiate system settings from one group of keys to the next.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; -There is no penalty for unlimited buckets except for when their settings
&gt; &gt; deviate from the system defaults. By settings I mean things like hooks,
&gt; &gt; replication values and backends among others.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; -One should list keys by truth if one enjoys sitting in parking lots on
&gt; &gt; the freeway on a scorching summers day or perhaps waiting in a TSA line
&gt; at
&gt; &gt; your nearest international point of embarkation surrounded by octomom
&gt; &gt; families all the while juggling between the grope or the pr0n slideshow.
&gt; &gt; If that is for you, use "?keys=true".
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; -Virtually everything in Riak is transient. Meaning, for the most part
&gt; &gt; (not including the 60 seconds or so of m/r cache), there is no caching
&gt; &gt; going on in Riak outside of the operating system. Ie. your subsequent
&gt; &gt; queries will do more or less the same work as their predecessors. You
&gt; need
&gt; &gt; to cache your own results if you want to reuse them... quickly.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Oh, there's more but I'm pretty jelloed from last night. Welcome to the
&gt; &gt; fold, Thomas. Can I call you Tom?
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Cheers,
&gt; &gt; -Alexander Sicular
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; @siculars
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; On Jan 22, 2011, at 10:19 AM, Thomas Burdick wrote:
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; I've been playing around with riak lately as really my first usage of a
&gt; &gt;&gt; distributed key/value store. I quite like many of the concepts and
&gt; &gt;&gt; possibilities of Riak and what it may deliver, however I'm really stuck
&gt; &gt;&gt; on an issue.
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; Doing the equivalent of a select \* from sometable in riak is seemingly
&gt; &gt;&gt; slow. As a quick test I tried...
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; http://localhost:8098/riak/mytable?keys=true
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; Before even iterating over the keys this was unbearably slow already.
&gt; &gt;&gt; This took almost half a second on my machine where mytable is completely
&gt; &gt;&gt; empty!
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; I'm a little baffled, I would assume that getting all the keys of a
&gt; table
&gt; &gt;&gt; is an incredibly common task? How do I get all the keys of a table
&gt; &gt;&gt; quickly? By quickly I mean a few milliseconds or less as I would expect
&gt; &gt;&gt; of even a "slow" rdbms with an empty table, even some tables with 1000's
&gt; &gt;&gt; of items can get all the primary keys of a sql table in a few
&gt; &gt;&gt; milliseconds.
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; Tom Burdick
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt; &gt; riak-users@.basho
&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;
&gt; &gt; riak-users@.basho
&gt;
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; View this message in context:
&gt; http://riak-users.197444.n3.nabble.com/Getting-all-the-Keys-tp2308764p4027757.html
&gt; Sent from the Riak Users mailing list archive at Nabble.com.
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

