---
title: "Re: Yokozuna unpredictable result count"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-02-19T08:28:57-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15747"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15746"
author_name: "Zeeshan Lakhani"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-02-19T08:28:57-08:00
---


Thanks Cezary. 

Have you deleted this object at some point in your runs? Please make sure AAE 
is running by checking search’s AAE status, `riak-admin search aae-status`, and 
that data exists in the correct directory, `./data/yz\_anti\_entropy` 
(http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/ops/advanced/configs/search/ 
). You may just 
need to perform a read-repair by performing a fetch of the object itself first, 
before performing search queries again.

Zeeshan Lakhani
programmer | 
software engineer at @basho | 
org. member/founder of @papers\_we\_love |
twitter =&gt; @zeeshanlakhani

&gt; On Feb 19, 2015, at 10:35 AM, Cezary Kosko  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; I have the exact same issue with regular http search queries, so I guess I'll 
&gt; just describe that part.
&gt; 
&gt; I've got a bucket of maps-of-sets, 2 of them are entityId\_set and 
&gt; timestamps\_set. Its search index is called 'job' and it's only this bucket 
&gt; that's indexed.
&gt; 
&gt; When I run
&gt; curl 
&gt; "localhost:8098/search/query/job?wt=json&q=entityId\_set:100000000000000000%20AND%20timestamps\_set:%5B1419721530%20TO%201419721539%5D"
&gt; 
&gt; (that's a query that is supposed to return exactly one result), the numFound 
&gt; field is either 0 or 1, it seems that I get both kinds of result in 10 
&gt; consecutive requests (and the timeAllowed parameter I wrote about, it doesn't 
&gt; really help).
&gt; 
&gt; That's the way they're handled in the schema:
&gt; 
&gt;  stored="false" multiValued="true" /&gt;
&gt;  stored="false" multiValued="true" /&gt;
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; Kind regards,
&gt; Cezary
&gt; 
&gt; 2015-02-19 16:04 GMT+01:00 Zeeshan Lakhani  &gt;:
&gt; Hello Cezary,
&gt; 
&gt; Firstly, are you able to retrieve your search result consistently when not 
&gt; using doing a mapreduce job? 
&gt; 
&gt; To better help out, can you send a gist of the mapreduce code you’re running? 
&gt; Thanks.
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On Feb 18, 2015, at 9:13 PM, Cezary Kosko &gt; &gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Hi,
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; I've got a search index, and I'd like to run mapred job against that index. 
&gt;&gt; The thing is, for a search query that should return exactly one result, I 
&gt;&gt; sometimes (not always, yet not rarely) get none, i.e. the mapred job returns 
&gt;&gt; an empty list instead of, say, a list containing a single object. Did this 
&gt;&gt; only happen some time after uploading the data and then was consistently 
&gt;&gt; giving the right results, I wouldn't object. However, it's kind of an 
&gt;&gt; on-and-off situation - I get proper results, but then for a brief period of 
&gt;&gt; time I don't and so on.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; I've read on a solr doc page that specifying a timeAllowed parameter in the 
&gt;&gt; query can give it longer to gather results and help, but that can't be 
&gt;&gt; specified in a mapred definition, or can it?
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Is there anything else I can look for?
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; The data I'm querying is of the CRDT map-of-sets type, should that be of any 
&gt;&gt; relevance.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Kind regards,
&gt;&gt; Cezary
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com 
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

