---
title: "Re: [Confusing search docs] Enabling search on bucket in Riak 2.0"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-11-27T08:17:58-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13107"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13106"
author_name: "Eric Redmond"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-11-27T08:17:58-08:00
---


That is not a valid solr query. You need to search by field:value. Try:

http://192.168.1.10:8098/solr/logs/select?q=\*:\*

Eric

On Nov 27, 2013, at 7:23 AM, Kartik Thakore  wrote:

&gt; Cool. I did the data activate and emptied out the bucket and set the props 
&gt; and created a different index. Still no go
&gt; 
&gt; Here is the data:
&gt; "[2013-11-27T15:21:30] [ERROR] [192.168.1.102] [zach.scratchd.ca] [0] 
&gt; [thakore.kar...@gmail.com] test"
&gt; 
&gt; Here is the search:
&gt; http://192.168.1.10:8098/solr/logs/select?q=\*
&gt; 
&gt; http://192.168.1.10:8098/solr/logs/select?q=test
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; No results found
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Tue, Nov 26, 2013 at 8:56 PM, Ryan Zezeski  wrote:
&gt; Kartik,
&gt; 
&gt; The pre7 tag incorporates the new bucket type integration. Bucket types are a 
&gt; new feature in 2.0 that provide additional namespace support and more 
&gt; efficient bucket properties (good for when you have many buckets with custom 
&gt; properties). The particular code you are running against requires that for 
&gt; data to be indexed in Yokozuna it must be stored under a non-default bucket 
&gt; type. Since you are not specifying a type the logs bucket lives under the 
&gt; default type where `yz\_index` will not be applied. This will be changed for 
&gt; 2.0 so that any type of bucket may be indexed. In the meantime, try this:
&gt; 
&gt; riak-admin bucket-type create data '{"props":{}}'
&gt; riak-admin bucket-type activate data
&gt; 
&gt; curl -X PUT -H 'content-type: application/json' 
&gt; 'http://host:port/types/data/buckets/logs/props' -d 
&gt; '{"props":{"yz\_index":"allLogs"}}'
&gt; 
&gt; That above will change soon as well. We are attempting to rename most user 
&gt; facing parts of Yokozuna to just "search". This means that `yz\_index` will 
&gt; soon become `search\_index`. Sorry for the inconvenience as things are in a 
&gt; bit of flux leading up to 2.0.
&gt; 
&gt; -Z
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Tue, Nov 26, 2013 at 5:59 PM, Kartik Thakore  wrote:
&gt; So finally got a chance to try this and I am running into issues (I am on 
&gt; Riak 2.0pre7) btw.
&gt; 
&gt; I have yz turned on:
&gt; 
&gt; http://192.168.1.10:8098/yz
&gt; 
&gt; I created the index with:
&gt; 
&gt; $ curl -i http://192.168.1.10:8098/yz/index/allLogs
&gt; 
&gt; HTTP/1.1 200 OK
&gt; Server: MochiWeb/1.1 WebMachine/1.10.5 (jokes are better explained)
&gt; Date: Tue, 26 Nov 2013 22:51:15 GMT
&gt; 
&gt; Content-Type: application/json
&gt; Content-Length: 41
&gt; 
&gt; {"name":"allLogs","schema":"\_yz\_default"}
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; And associated the search to the bucket probs:
&gt; 
&gt; http://192.168.1.10:8098/buckets/logs/props
&gt; 
&gt; {
&gt; 
&gt; props:
&gt; {
&gt; 
&gt; allow\_mult: true,
&gt; basic\_quorum: false,
&gt; big\_vclock: 50,
&gt; chash\_keyfun:
&gt; {
&gt; 
&gt; mod: "riak\_core\_util",
&gt; fun: "chash\_std\_keyfun"
&gt; 
&gt; },
&gt; dw: "quorum",
&gt; last\_write\_wins: false,
&gt; linkfun:
&gt; {
&gt; 
&gt; mod: "riak\_kv\_wm\_link\_walker",
&gt; fun: "mapreduce\_linkfun"
&gt; 
&gt; },
&gt; n\_val: 3,
&gt; name: "logs",
&gt; notfound\_ok: true,
&gt; old\_vclock: 86400,
&gt; postcommit: [ ],
&gt; pr: 0,
&gt; precommit: [ ],
&gt; pw: 0,
&gt; r: "quorum",
&gt; rw: "quorum",
&gt; small\_vclock: 50,
&gt; w: "quorum",
&gt; young\_vclock: 20,
&gt; yz\_index: "allLogs"
&gt; 
&gt; }
&gt; 
&gt; }
&gt; 
&gt; I put in a text/plain entry with:
&gt; 
&gt; http://192.168.1.10:8098/riak/logs/26-11-2013T2260?vtag=47ffPuWSln7VhlTl02raJA
&gt; 
&gt; [2013-11-26T22:43:26] [ERROR] [192.168.1.102] [0] [thakore.kar...@gmail.com] 
&gt; test
&gt; 
&gt; http://192.168.1.10:8098/riak/logs/26-11-2013T2260?vtag=6IYwwPE27eUbs8ThaSOcTC
&gt; 
&gt; [2013-11-26T22:39:59] [ERROR] [192.168.1.102] [0] [thakore.kar...@gmail.com] 
&gt; test
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; But when I search:
&gt; 
&gt; http://192.168.1.10:8098/search/allLogs?q=\*
&gt; 
&gt; No results
&gt; 
&gt; http://192.168.1.10:8098/search/allLogs?q=test
&gt; 
&gt; No results
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; Whats going on?
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Thu, Nov 21, 2013 at 12:45 PM, Ryan Zezeski  wrote:
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; On Wed, Nov 20, 2013 at 3:48 PM, Kartik Thakore  wrote:
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; Thank you.
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; I am creating indexes with:
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; curl -i -XPUT http://192.168.1.10:8098/yz/index/allLogs \
&gt; &gt;&gt; -H 'content-type: application/json' \
&gt; &gt;&gt; -d '{"schema" : "\_yz\_default", "bucket" : "logs" }'
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; But when I check the index with:
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; curl -i http://192.168.1.10:8098/yz/index/allLogs
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; It drops the bucket association
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; HTTP/1.1 200 OK
&gt; &gt;&gt; Server: MochiWeb/1.1 WebMachine/1.10.5 (jokes are better explained)
&gt; &gt;&gt; Date: Wed, 20 Nov 2013 20:45:21 GMT
&gt; &gt;&gt; Content-Type: application/json
&gt; &gt;&gt; Content-Length: 41
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; {"name":"allLogs","schema":"\_yz\_default"}
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Sorry, that documentation is out of date.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; To associate an index to a bucket you need to set the bucket's properties.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; curl -XPUT -H 'content-type: application/json' 
&gt; &gt; 'http://localhost:8098/buckets/logs/props' -d 
&gt; &gt; '{"props":{"yz\_index":"allLogs"}}'
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; You can perform a GET on that same resource to check the yz\_index property 
&gt; &gt; is set.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; Also
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; what is going on here
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; curl -XPUT -H'content-type:application/json' 
&gt; &gt;&gt; http://localhost:8098/buckets/people/keys/me \
&gt; &gt;&gt; -d'{ "name\_s" : "kartik" }'
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; Why not:
&gt; &gt;&gt; curl -XPUT -H'content-type:application/json' 
&gt; &gt;&gt; http://localhost:8098/rial/people/me \
&gt; &gt;&gt; -d'{ "name\_s" : "kartik" }'
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; In Riak 1.0.0 we changed the resource from '/riak//' to 
&gt; &gt; '/buckets//keys/'. We were supposed to deprecate and 
&gt; &gt; eventually remove the old resource but we never did. You can still use the 
&gt; &gt; old style but I would recommend using the new style as it is what we use in 
&gt; &gt; official docs and there is a chance perhaps the old resources don't stay up 
&gt; &gt; to date with the latest features.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; -Z
&gt; 
&gt; 

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

