---
title: "Re: Riak Search API: Returning matching documents"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-03-26T16:06:12-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13936"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13935"
author_name: "Brian Roach"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-03-26T16:06:12-07:00
---


Just want to add: driver (client) dev is listening!

Adding this our clients is a fairly easy thing, and I'll ad it to our todo list.

- Roach

On Wed, Mar 26, 2014 at 4:03 PM, Alexander Sicular  wrote:
&gt; Agree with a lot of your points, Elias. But I've found that as a solo
&gt; developer pushing product in my organization, and I would venture to say
&gt; there are others like mine, Riak's ops proposition trumps some of these
&gt; developer issues. Not having to hire ops personnel to babysit a Riak app is
&gt; a big win for organizations that barely have money to hire a dev.
&gt;
&gt; If you are a developer that pushes product you can deal with round trip
&gt; issues, multi fetch issues, etc. Aka. Riak's lack of developer sugar. You
&gt; mentioned it earlier, but a search &gt; MR is exactly how I've done multi fetch
&gt; in Riak 1.x and, it seems, will continue to do in Riak 2.x. Of course,
&gt; solutions are specific to your application. A search &gt; user land multi fetch
&gt; wrapper function is trivial to implement. Actually, I don't know why Basho
&gt; doesn't ship just such a wrapper in erlang that would take an array of
&gt; bucket/key pairs and push out an array of responses. But either way, it's
&gt; not really a show stopper.
&gt;
&gt; Ya sugar is nice but, as you know, eventually you crash.
&gt;
&gt; -Alexander Sicular
&gt;
&gt; @siculars
&gt;
&gt; On Mar 26, 2014, at 2:10 PM, Elias Levy  wrote:
&gt;
&gt; On Wed, Mar 26, 2014 at 10:36 AM, Eric Redmond  wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; That is correct. Storing values in solr make the values redundant. That's
&gt;&gt; because solr and Riak are different systems with different storage
&gt;&gt; strategies. Since we only return the solr results, the only way we can
&gt;&gt; access the kv values would be to make a separate call, which is not much
&gt;&gt; different from your client making that same call.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; As for separating Riak Search from kv entirely, this is a possibility
&gt;&gt; we've looked into, but it won't be ready for 2.0. I'm sorry to say that, for
&gt;&gt; the time being, the only option for your request is to store values in both
&gt;&gt; places.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Thanks for the response Eric. I understand the current limitations. My
&gt; question was forward looking.
&gt;
&gt; Riak is an amazing piece of technology that provides great availability. Ops
&gt; loves Riak. Alas, in my opinion, its weakness has always been one of easy of
&gt; use for developers. When it was just the KV store, the complexities of
&gt; eventual consistency were placed squarely in the developer's shoulders and
&gt; querability was very limited.
&gt;
&gt; 2i helped somewhat, and the new CRDT data types improve things tremendously,
&gt; as does Yokozuna. But there are still gaps. No bulk loading. No bulk
&gt; fetching.
&gt;
&gt; Riak has always felt like a collection of components, rather than an
&gt; integrated system. KV is unaware of Bitcask expirations. Search doesn't
&gt; returned matched documents.
&gt;
&gt; MongoDB's cluster and storage layers may be a disgrace, but the one thing
&gt; they got right is the expressive API. Its one reason why developers love
&gt; Mongo, at the same time is hated by Ops.
&gt;
&gt; I'd love to see this ease of use within Riak, so I can actually get our
&gt; developers to use it more.
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

