---
title: "Re: Riak 2.0 Search Issues"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-03-05T05:54:00-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15832"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15825"
author_name: "Steve Garon"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-03-05T05:54:00-08:00
---


Yes I do have yz\_events,handle\_info in crash log. Tons of them actually and
they have a big ass strack trace attached to each of them.

It would be hard for me to provide you with logs. If you have specific
questions you want answers to I'd be happy to help though.


Steve

On 4 March 2015 at 14:20, Zeeshan Lakhani  wrote:

&gt; Hey Steve,
&gt;
&gt; Sorry to see you’re having new issues.
&gt;
&gt; We’ll have the fix for “space in the key” out soon; it’s currently under
&gt; review. And, I know that this issue is unrelated.
&gt;
&gt; I have a few different routes/thoughts for you, but are you seeing
&gt; anything related to `yz\_events,handle\_info` in your crash logs? Also, can
&gt; you gist/pastebin me your solr logs? I’d like to seem if it correlates with
&gt; something we’re currently looking at.
&gt;
&gt; Thanks.
&gt;
&gt; Zeeshan Lakhani
&gt; programmer |
&gt; software engineer at @basho |
&gt; org. member/founder of @papers\_we\_love | paperswelove.org
&gt; twitter =&gt; @zeeshanlakhani
&gt;
&gt; On Mar 4, 2015, at 10:39 AM, Steve Garon  wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Hey all,
&gt;
&gt; We were having the "space in the key" bug in our cluster so we went
&gt; through the whole dataset, backing it up to json file and removing the
&gt; spaces in the keys. Then we trashed our whole cluster and restart from
&gt; scratch reimporting the whole data. Everything worked like a charm for two
&gt; weeks but this weekend, not sure what happened but AAE died again.
&gt;
&gt; I have two issues now:
&gt; 1. AAE is trying to recreate an index that already exists and crashes with
&gt; an "Already exists" error ... I get this in my error log every 15 seconds
&gt; 2. AAE crashes while iterating through entropy data with a request timeout
&gt; error every hour followed by tons of failed to index objects with request
&gt; timeout as well. Stack trace looks like this:
&gt;
&gt; \*[error] emulator Error in process &lt;025931.7166&gt; on node 'riak@IP' with
&gt; exit value: {function\_clause,[{yz\_entropy,iterate\_entropy\_data,[&lt;&lt;11
&gt; bytes&gt;&gt;,[{continuation,&lt;&lt;159
&gt; bytes&gt;&gt;},{limit,100},{partition,12}],#Fun \*\*(TRUNCATED)\*
&gt;
&gt; \*[error] &lt;0.1371.0&gt;@yz\_kv:index:215 failed to index object
&gt; {{&lt;&lt;"TYPE"&gt;&gt;,&lt;&lt;"BUCKET"&gt;&gt;},&lt;&lt;"KEY"&gt;&gt;} with error {"Failed to index
&gt; docs",{error,req\_timeout}} because ... \*\*(REPEATED MULTIPLE TIME FOR
&gt; DIFFERENT KEYS)\*
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; I tried clearing the yz anti-entropy tree and reinitialising the
&gt; yz\_entropy\_mgr with no luck. Anything I can do to fix this?
&gt;
&gt; Oh FYI, I cannot insert data with spaces in the key anymore because we are
&gt; using a wrapper on top of riak that will prevent us to do so therefore my
&gt; issues are not related to this for sure.
&gt;
&gt; These are some config changes that may be good to know for more context.
&gt;
&gt; We added this to ibrowse.conf:
&gt; {dest, "localhost", 8093, 100, 1000, []}.
&gt;
&gt; Jetty is set with minthread 80, acceptors 80, and is using the NIO
&gt; connector.
&gt;
&gt; All our solr buckets have filterCache disabled with softcommits set to 10s
&gt; instead of 1.
&gt;
&gt; Our riak.conf has background\_manager turned on with AAE and handoff using
&gt; it.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt;
&gt; Steve
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

