---
title: "Re: Update to 1.4.8"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-04-08T03:14:31-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14019"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14018"
author_name: "Edgar Veiga"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-04-08T03:14:31-07:00
---


Well, my anti-entropy folders in each machine have ~120G, It's quite a
lot!!!

I have ~600G of data per server and a cluster of 6 servers with level-db.
Just for comparison effects, what about you?

Someone of basho, can you please advise on this one?

Best regards! :)


On 8 April 2014 11:02, Timo Gatsonides  wrote:

&gt; "...So I stopped AAE on all nodes (with riak attach), removed the AAE folders 
&gt; on all the nodes. And then restarted them one-by-one, so they all started 
&gt; with a clean AAE state. Then about a day later the cluster was finally in a 
&gt; normal state."
&gt;
&gt; I don't understand the difference between what you did and what I'm
&gt; describing in the former emails? I've stopped the aae via riak attach, and
&gt; then one by one, I've stopped the node, removed the anti-entropy data and
&gt; started the node. Is there any subtle difference I'm not getting?
&gt;
&gt; I'm asking this because indeed this hasn't proved to be enough to stop the
&gt; cluster entire cluster load. Another thing is the anti-entropy dir data
&gt; size, since the upgrade it has reached very high values comparing to the
&gt; previous ones...
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Unfortunately I don't have a 100% definitive answer for you, maybe someone
&gt; from Basho can advise.
&gt;
&gt; In my case I noticed that after running riak\_kv\_entropy\_manager:disable()
&gt; the IO load did not decrease immediately and on some servers it took quite
&gt; a while before iostat showed disk I/O going to normal levels. I only
&gt; removed the AAE folders after IO load was normal.
&gt;
&gt; Now that you have mentioned it I just took a look at my servers and the
&gt; anti-entropy dir is large (&gt;500Mb) on my servers too, although it varies
&gt; from one server to the next.
&gt;
&gt; Best regards,
&gt; Timo
&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

