---
title: "Re: Scaling Riak CS to hundreds or thousands of servers"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-07-27T09:20:08-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11794"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg11752"
author_name: "Andre Lohmann"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-07-27T09:20:08-07:00
---


Hi Again and thanks for the answers.

Now I have another questions.

If chunk size is always 1mb and i have a file of 100mb within a cluster of 100 
servers. Are the chunks then split over all 100 servers or am i able to manage 
the chunks of one file to be saved at one place, to prevent to much network 
traffic?

Also, there are allways files, that are fetched of high frequency and others 
that are less relevant. Is it possible to configure files that should be copied 
to more than three servers and can this setting for some special files be reset 
to a lower redundancy, after these files become less relevant too?

Kind regards

Andre

Von meinem iPad gesendet

Am 25.07.2013 um 16:56 schrieb John Daily :

&gt; Good questions, Andre, thanks for reaching out.
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; How is the Scaling of Raik CS when setting up a few hundred servers in a 
&gt;&gt; cluster?
&gt; 
&gt; The upper limit of a cluster size depends on traffic load, hardware, and 
&gt; network capacity, but anything approaching 100 servers is likely to run into 
&gt; trouble due to inherent limitations in both Riak and the Erlang VM itself. 
&gt; An Erlang cluster is a full mesh, so the cluster overhead grows significantly 
&gt; with the number of servers.
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Does it make sense, to build a cluster of that size, or is it recommended to 
&gt;&gt; have smaller pools of clusters and shard the Files over more than one 
&gt;&gt; cluster?
&gt; 
&gt; Definitely should look at deploying multiple clusters.
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; What about stanchion as the potetial single point of failure, how to prevent 
&gt;&gt; it from corupting the System? If I got it right, Stanchion handles the IDs 
&gt;&gt; of Buckets and some user stuff. So if no further Buckets or users need to be 
&gt;&gt; created, there is no need for stanchion at that time and up-/downloading can 
&gt;&gt; go on as usual?
&gt; 
&gt; You're correct: user accounts and user buckets are the reason we need a 
&gt; consensus system, and thus the reason Stanchion exists. For existing 
&gt; users/buckets, as you indicate, files can be transferred without any 
&gt; involvement from Stanchion.
&gt; 
&gt; It is possible to cluster Stanchion using traditional cluster tools.
&gt; 
&gt; (Why Amazon chose to use a global namespace for buckets is a mystery beyond 
&gt; my ken.)
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; As I want to use riak cs for large files (50MB-15GB) is it possible to raise 
&gt;&gt; the chunk size up to these Filesizes, to prevent the system from heavy 
&gt;&gt; network traffic?
&gt; 
&gt; Definitely not. Erlang's distribution protocol will behave badly with objects 
&gt; that large.
&gt; 
&gt; -John Daily
&gt; Technical Evangelist
&gt; Basho Technologies
&gt; 

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

