---
title: "Re: Random timeouts on Riak"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-12-30T03:21:08-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15429"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15427"
author_name: "Russell Brown"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-12-30T03:21:08-08:00
---



On 30 Dec 2014, at 11:16, Jason Ryan  wrote:

&gt; Hi Russell,
&gt; 
&gt; Bucket Properties are:
&gt; 
&gt; young\_vclock: 20
&gt; w: quorum
&gt; small\_vclock: 50
&gt; rw: quorum
&gt; r: quorum
&gt; pw: 0
&gt; precommit: []
&gt; pr: 0
&gt; postcommit: []
&gt; old\_vclock: 86400
&gt; notfound\_ok: true
&gt; n\_val: 3
&gt; linkfun: {modfun,riak\_kv\_wm\_link\_walker,mapreduce\_linkfun}
&gt; last\_write\_wins: true
&gt; dw: quorum
&gt; dvv\_enabled: true

Interesting. So this is a default bucket on which you enabled DVV? Or a bucket 
type bucket (which has DVV enabled by default?)

&gt; chash\_keyfun: {riak\_core\_util,chash\_std\_keyfun}
&gt; big\_vclock: 50
&gt; basic\_quorum: false
&gt; allow\_mult: false
&gt; active: true
&gt; claimant: 'n1@10.2.4.5'
&gt; 
&gt; Jason
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; Jason Ryan
&gt; VP Engineering
&gt; 
&gt; Trustev
&gt; Real Time, Online Identity Verification
&gt; 
&gt; email: jason.r...@trustev.com 
&gt; skype: jason\_j\_ryan
&gt; web: www.trustev.com
&gt; 
&gt; Trustev Ltd, 2100 Cork Airport Business Park, Cork, Ireland. 
&gt; 
&gt; On 30 December 2014 at 08:49, Russell Brown  wrote:
&gt; Please can you let me know if you’re using a typed or default bucket?
&gt; 
&gt; Please can you let me know what you’re DVV setting is?
&gt; 
&gt; On 29 Dec 2014, at 12:27, Jason Ryan  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Also we noticed these warnings - should we change the environment to make 
&gt;&gt; these on each node?
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 2014-12-29 11:32:14.564 [warning] &lt;0.339.0&gt; riak\_kv\_env: sysctl 
&gt;&gt; net.core.rmem\_max is 124928, should be at least 8388608)
&gt;&gt; 2014-12-29 11:32:14.564 [warning] &lt;0.339.0&gt; riak\_kv\_env: sysctl 
&gt;&gt; net.core.netdev\_max\_backlog is 1000, should be at least 10000)
&gt;&gt; 2014-12-29 11:32:14.564 [warning] &lt;0.339.0&gt; riak\_kv\_env: sysctl 
&gt;&gt; net.core.somaxconn is 128, should be at least 40000)
&gt;&gt; 2014-12-29 11:32:14.564 [warning] &lt;0.339.0&gt; riak\_kv\_env: sysctl 
&gt;&gt; net.ipv4.tcp\_max\_syn\_backlog is 2048, should be at least 40000)
&gt;&gt; 2014-12-29 11:32:14.565 [warning] &lt;0.339.0&gt; riak\_kv\_env: sysctl 
&gt;&gt; net.ipv4.tcp\_fin\_timeout is 60, should be no more than 15)
&gt;&gt; 2014-12-29 11:32:14.565 [warning] &lt;0.339.0&gt; riak\_kv\_env: sysctl 
&gt;&gt; net.ipv4.tcp\_keepalive\_intvl is 75
&gt;&gt; , should be no more than 30)
&gt;&gt; 2014-12-29 11:32:14.565 [warning] &lt;0.339.0&gt; riak\_kv\_env: sysctl 
&gt;&gt; net.ipv4.tcp\_tw\_reuse is 0, should be 1)
&gt;&gt; 2014-12-29 11:33:02.528 [warning] &lt;10924.36.0&gt; OS\_MON (memsup) called by 
&gt;&gt; &lt;10924.36.0&gt;, not started
&gt;&gt; 2014-12-29 11:33:02.534 [warning] &lt;10924.45.0&gt; OS\_MON (memsup) called by 
&gt;&gt; &lt;10924.45.0&gt;, not started
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On 29 December 2014 at 12:08, Sargun Dhillon  wrote:
&gt;&gt; The bucket (type) that you're working with -- what are your
&gt;&gt; allow\_mult, and last\_write\_wins settings?
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On Mon, Dec 29, 2014 at 4:05 AM, Jason Ryan  wrote:
&gt;&gt; &gt; It seems to move between 4 keys in particular, these keys are actually 
&gt;&gt; &gt; empty
&gt;&gt; &gt; at the moment (i.e. an empty JSON document).
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; CPU utilization is close to zero.
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; Can't see anything in particular, bar the error message I just posted
&gt;&gt; &gt; before.
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; Jason
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; On 29 December 2014 at 11:58, Ciprian Manea  wrote:
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; Hi Jason,
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; Are these random timeouts happening for only one key, or is common for
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; more?
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; What is the CPU utilisation in the cluster when you're experience these
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; timeouts?
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; Can you spot anything peculiar in your server's $ dmesg outputs? Any I/O
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; errors there?
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; Regards,
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; Ciprian
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; On Mon, Dec 29, 2014 at 1:55 PM, Sargun Dhillon  wrote:
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; Several things:
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; 1) I recommend you have a 5-node cluster:
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; http://basho.com/why-your-riak-cluster-should-have-at-least-five-nodes/
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; 2) What version of Riak are you using?
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; 3) What backend(s) are you using?
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; 4) What's the size of your keyspace?
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; 5) Are you actively rewriting keys, or writing keys to the cluster?
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; 6) Do you know how much I/O the cluster is currently doing?
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; On Mon, Dec 29, 2014 at 2:51 AM, Jason Ryan 
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; Hi,
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; We are getting random timeouts from our application (&gt;60seconds) when
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; we try
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; to retrieve a key from our Riak cluster (4 nodes with a load balancer
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; in
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; front of them). Our application just uses the standard REST API to
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; query
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; Riak.
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; We are pretty new to Riak - so would like to understand how best to
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; debug
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; this issue? Is there any good pointers on what to start with? This is
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; our
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; production cluster.
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; Jason
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; This message is for the named person's use only. If you received this
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; message in error, please immediately delete it and all copies and
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; notify the
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; sender. You must not, directly or indirectly, use, disclose,
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; distribute,
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; print, or copy any part of this message if you are not the intended
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; recipient. Any views expressed in this message are those of the
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; individual
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; sender and not Trustev Ltd. Trustev is registered in Ireland No. 516425
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; and
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; trades from 2100 Cork Airport Business Park, Cork, Ireland.
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; This message is for the named person's use only. If you received this
&gt;&gt; &gt; message in error, please immediately delete it and all copies and notify 
&gt;&gt; &gt; the
&gt;&gt; &gt; sender. You must not, directly or indirectly, use, disclose, distribute,
&gt;&gt; &gt; print, or copy any part of this message if you are not the intended
&gt;&gt; &gt; recipient. Any views expressed in this message are those of the individual
&gt;&gt; &gt; sender and not Trustev Ltd. Trustev is registered in Ireland No. 516425 and
&gt;&gt; &gt; trades from 2100 Cork Airport Business Park, Cork, Ireland.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; This message is for the named person's use only. If you received this 
&gt;&gt; message in error, please immediately delete it and all copies and notify the 
&gt;&gt; sender. You must not, directly or indirectly, use, disclose, distribute, 
&gt;&gt; print, or copy any part of this message if you are not the intended 
&gt;&gt; recipient. Any views expressed in this message are those of the individual 
&gt;&gt; sender and not Trustev Ltd. Trustev is registered in Ireland No. 516425 and 
&gt;&gt; trades from 2100 Cork Airport Business Park, Cork, Ireland.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; This message is for the named person's use only. If you received this message 
&gt; in error, please immediately delete it and all copies and notify the sender. 
&gt; You must not, directly or indirectly, use, disclose, distribute, print, or 
&gt; copy any part of this message if you are not the intended recipient. Any 
&gt; views expressed in this message are those of the individual sender and not 
&gt; Trustev Ltd. Trustev is registered in Ireland No. 516425 and trades from 2100 
&gt; Cork Airport Business Park, Cork, Ireland.
&gt; 

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

