---
title: "Re: [ANN] Riak 2.0.0beta1"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-04-16T13:42:06-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14103"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14099"
author_name: "Andrew Zeneski"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-04-16T13:42:06-07:00
---


No more OS X builds?


On Wed, Apr 16, 2014 at 12:51 PM, Tom Santero  wrote:

&gt; Hello Riak Users,
&gt;
&gt; The Basho Team is happy to release Riak 2.0.0-beta1. The source tarball
&gt; and pre-built packages are available for download [0]. Note that we've
&gt; added support for FreeBSD 10, and removed support for SmartOS 1.6.
&gt;
&gt; By calling this version "beta" we consider this release feature frozen, as
&gt; opposed to the previous pre-release builds which were still moving targets.
&gt; Similar to the pre-releases, 2.0.0beta1 is not intended for production use,
&gt; and may contain bugs. Over the coming weeks the Basho engineering team will
&gt; continue testing Riak rigorously, to identify and squash any bugs that may
&gt; have been introduced with the number of features we're excited to deliver.
&gt;
&gt; As always, feedback from the community is invaluable. We strongly
&gt; encourage you to download beta1, test it for yourself and report any issues
&gt; you encounter via the mailing list or on GitHub.
&gt;
&gt; You'll find a getting started with Riak 2.0 guide on the docs [1]. If
&gt; you're completely new to 2.0 and the features we've added--such as bucket
&gt; types, Solr, strong consistency and data types--you'll find links to the
&gt; relevant documentation, supplementary reading materials and conference
&gt; videos there.
&gt;
&gt; Also note that as we head toward a GA release of Riak 2.0 the docs site is
&gt; being updated on an almost-daily basis. Some features may not yet be fully
&gt; documented. If you come across anything in the documentation that is
&gt; incorrect, or even poorly worded, please feel free to open an issue or
&gt; submit a pull request[2].
&gt;
&gt; Regards,
&gt; Tom
&gt;
&gt; [0] http://docs.basho.com/riak/2.0.0beta1/downloads/
&gt; [1] http://docs.basho.com/riak/2.0.0beta1/intro-v20/
&gt; [2] https://github.com/basho/basho\_docs
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

