---
title: "Re: A put is not put in Riak"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-12-30T15:28:16-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16901"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16894"
author_name: "Alexander Sicular"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-12-30T15:28:16-08:00
---


Patrice, since Riak is distributed it uses a quorum (default 2 when
n\_val is 3) to read your data. Since you're doing a post commit hook
to read your data immediately after you write there may be delay in
getting the new value from two of three copies written due simply to
timing. So the rule of thumb is to do a w+r&gt;n transaction where you
ensure that you write/read with some total value more than your number
of replicas. Read these posts (part four talks about RYOW):

http://basho.com/posts/technical/understanding-riaks-configurable-behaviors-part-1/
http://basho.com/posts/technical/riaks-config-behaviors-part-2/
http://basho.com/posts/technical/riaks-config-behaviors-part-3/
http://basho.com/posts/technical/riaks-config-behaviors-part-4/

-Alexander

@siculars
http://siculars.posthaven.com

Sent from my iRotaryPhone

&gt; On Dec 30, 2015, at 11:14, John Daily  wrote:
&gt;
&gt; This smells like a clock problem. Are you confident all of your servers’ 
&gt; clocks are set to the same time?
&gt;
&gt; Updates can be treacherous if clocks are not synchronized and multiple writes 
&gt; to the same key occur in a period of time short enough to fit within the 
&gt; clock skew.
&gt;
&gt; I wrote about this after a similar question arose here: 
&gt; http://basho.com/posts/technical/clocks-are-bad-or-welcome-to-distributed-systems/
&gt;
&gt; -John
&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Dec 8, 2015, at 9:39 AM, Patrice Bruno  wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Good-Evening everyone,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I'm reading this maling for minths now wioth great interest, and now we are 
&gt;&gt; using Riak, I have a question to not say an issue that I can not figure out.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; We have migrated leveldb files from Riak 1.3.1 to Riak 2.1.1.
&gt;&gt; The clusters has 6 Nodes and 6 computers.
&gt;&gt; We are running now on CentOS Linux release 7.1.1503 (Core) (we were under 
&gt;&gt; Fedora when we are under Riak 1.3.1).
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; We have kept the default Riak paramaters. We are not using 'bucket\_type'. 
&gt;&gt; The only paramaters we have tuned are:
&gt;&gt; erlang.distribution\_buffer\_size = 128MB
&gt;&gt; erlang.async\_threads = 128
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; My issue is on a Bucket without sibling (default settings) I'm making a put 
&gt;&gt; and when I do the get the value has not been changed, and old value stayed 
&gt;&gt; under the key. So, I have made a test: I've made a put of an objet A, I can 
&gt;&gt; see in the precommit hook that it's well the object A, but in the postcommit 
&gt;&gt; the object (argument passed) is an old one.
&gt;&gt; I thought that I'm not sending the right object, but when I see it in 
&gt;&gt; precommit hook, I'm sure now that I send what I expect to send.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; It's not for all the objects, but it appears time to time under load.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Do you already seen this issue ?
&gt;&gt; Do you have an idea or something I can enhance/tune ?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Help me mailing list, you are my only hope :-) (dixit Princess Leia).
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Best Reagrds,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Patrice Bruno
&gt;&gt; Kuantic
&gt;&gt; ---
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

