---
title: "Re: How to deal with tombstone values when writing a Riak (http)	client"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-03-25T06:30:46-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10581"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg10576"
author_name: "Brian Roach"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-03-25T06:30:46-07:00
---


Hi Age,

I'm the author of the pull request for the Java client you cite.
There's still inconsistency in how these are returned via the HTTP
protocol. Partially that's my fault in that I didn't open an actual
issue when I discovered the problem I note in my comments. While
reviewing the issue to make sure I answered your question correctly, I
found another.

As of right now (Riak 1.3), here's what you will find:

1) If \*only\* a tombstone exists when you do a GET for a key, you will
receive a 404 but it will contain the X-Riak-Vclock header (with a
vclock). A "normal" 404 (when there's no object) will not have this
header.

2) If there is a set of siblings, and one of them is a tombstone:

2a) Retrieving all the siblings at once by including "Accept:
multipart/mixed" in the GET will return all the siblings, and the
tombstone will include the "X-Riak-Deleted: true" header

2b) Retrieving each sibling manually by adding ?vtag=XXXXXX to the GET
will (unfortunately) return a 200 OK for the tombstone but it will
have an empty body (Content-Length: 0).

I'm going to open issues for 1 and 2b just so we get things to be
consistent. That being said, I can't think of a reason you'd ever want
to do 2b so at least the impact there is minimized. For 1 you can
obviously still identify a tombstone the same way I'm doing it in the
Java client -&gt; 404 + vclock = tombstone.

Thanks,
\_ Roach

On Sun, Mar 24, 2013 at 2:09 PM, Age Mooij  wrote:
&gt; Hi,
&gt;
&gt; I've been trying to find some comprehensive docs on what Riak http clients
&gt; need to do to properly support dealing with tombstone values. I ran into
&gt; tombstones while debugging some unit tests and I was very surprised that the
&gt; Basho (http) API docs don't mention anything about having to deal with them.
&gt;
&gt; It's very hard to find any kind of complete description on when Riak will
&gt; produce tombstone values in http responses and what the proper way of
&gt; dealing with them is. This makes it very hard to write good unit tests and
&gt; to implement the "correct" behaviour for my riak-scala-client.
&gt;
&gt; Can anyone point me towards a comprehensive description of the expected
&gt; behaviour? Or even a description of what most client libraries end up doing?
&gt;
&gt; For now I just ignore siblings with the X-Riak-Deleted header (undocumented
&gt; AFAIK) when resolving conflicts caused by a delete followed by a put (based
&gt; on the same vclock). I'm not sure this header could (or should) occur in any
&gt; other situation.
&gt;
&gt; Here's the online stuff I've found so far:
&gt;
&gt; - A pull request for the java client:
&gt; https://github.com/basho/riak-java-client/pull/195
&gt;
&gt; - The most important commit message for the above pull request:
&gt; https://github.com/basho/riak-java-client/commit/416a901ff1de8e4eb559db21ac5045078d278e86
&gt;
&gt; - Some interesting code introduced in that commit:
&gt;
&gt; // There is a bug in Riak where the x-riak-deleted header is not returned
&gt; // with a tombstone on a 404 (x-riak-vclock exists). The following block can
&gt; // be removed once that is fixed
&gt; byte[] body = r.getBody();
&gt; if (r.getStatusCode() == 404) {
&gt; headers.put(Constants.HDR\_DELETED, "true");
&gt; body = new byte[0]; // otherwise this will be "not found"
&gt; }
&gt;
&gt; That bug apparently still exists… do all clients implement this hack? Should
&gt; they?
&gt;
&gt; - A message to this mailing list from October 2011:
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/pipermail/riak-users\_lists.basho.com/2011-October/006048.html
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; Age
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

