---
title: "Re: Yokozuna: Riak Python client PB error with Solr stored boolean	fields"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-10-15T11:44:20-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12636"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12624"
author_name: "Ryan Zezeski"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-10-15T11:44:20-07:00
---


Dave,

This is a bug in Yokozuna. I have a hot-patch you can try. I'll email you
directly with an attachment.

I created an issue as well.

https://github.com/basho/yokozuna/issues/209

-Z




On Mon, Oct 14, 2013 at 9:27 PM, Dave Martorana  wrote:

&gt; I studied the problem I was having with using the Python client's
&gt; .fulltext\_search(...) method and got it down to this - it seems that I get
&gt; an error when searching against Solr using the Python client's
&gt; .fulltext\_search(...) method (using protocol buffers) whenever I have a \*
&gt; stored\* boolean field.
&gt;
&gt; In my schema, I have:
&gt;
&gt; 
&gt;
&gt; With that (or any named field of type "boolean" that is set to
&gt; stored="true") I receive the following stack trace:
&gt;
&gt; http://pastebin.com/ejCixPEZ
&gt;
&gt; In the error.log file on the server, I see the following repeated:
&gt;
&gt; 2013-10-15 01:21:17.480 [error] &lt;0.2872.0&gt;@yz\_pb\_search:maybe\_process:95
&gt; function\_clause
&gt; [{yz\_pb\_search,to\_binary,[false],[{file,"src/yz\_pb\_search.erl"},{line,154}]},{yz\_pb\_search,encode\_field,2,[{file,"src/yz\_pb\_search.erl"},{line,152}]},{lists,foldl,3,[{file,"lists.erl"},{line,1197}]},{yz\_pb\_search,encode\_doc,1,[{file,"src/yz\_pb\_search.erl"},{line,144}]},{yz\_pb\_search,'-maybe\_process/3-lc$^0/1-0-',1,[{file,"src/yz\_pb\_search.erl"},{line,76}]},{yz\_pb\_search,maybe\_process,3,[{file,"src/yz\_pb\_search.erl"},{line,76}]},{riak\_api\_pb\_server,process\_message,4,[{file,"src/riak\_api\_pb\_server.erl"},{line,383}]},{riak\_api\_pb\_server,connected,2,[{file,"src/riak\_api\_pb\_server.erl"},{line,221}]}]
&gt;
&gt; Does anyone have any insight? I'm not a Solr expert, so perhaps storing
&gt; boolean fields for retrieval is not a good idea? I know if I index but
&gt; don't store, I can still successfully search against a boolean value.
&gt;
&gt; Thanks!
&gt;
&gt; Dave
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

