---
title: "Re: cluster health check using riak-java-client"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2016-01-14T08:10:36-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16967"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16857"
author_name: "Luke Bakken"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2016-01-14T08:10:36-08:00
---


&gt; Of course I have yet another question. Even if I assume the state of each
&gt; node is correct, how do I know if the cluster overall is considered healthy?
&gt; This may not be a valid question, but I hope it is. For example, if the
&gt; cluster configuration requires 3 nodes to write, I can write some fairly
&gt; detailed code in riak-java-client to realize that's the configuration and
&gt; count that there are enough healthy nodes. However, if I'm using something
&gt; like haproxy, I'm not sure there's a great spot to put that logic.
&gt;
&gt; Is there a way to query the cluster overall to ask a health question like
&gt; this?

Hi David,

Alex's suggestion to use the PR and PW parameters for reads and writes
could be used to create a health check within your application.

However, I recommend not worrying too much about this issue within
your application, as Riak is designed to be fault-tolerant. Instead
focus on having a robust monitoring system in place for both Riak and
your servers:

http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/ops/running/stats-and-monitoring/

Monitoring the performance of your cluster and alerting on increased
latency or other outlier situations is a better approach, in my
opinion.

--
Luke Bakken
Engineer
lbak...@basho.com

&gt; On 12/8/15 1:09 PM, Alexander Sicular wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Besides just plainly writing a key, you could also do something like
&gt;&gt; (pseudo code):
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Riak.put(canaryKey, pw=n\_val){
&gt;&gt; If ok -&gt; cool!
&gt;&gt; If borked -&gt; sad face
&gt;&gt; }
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; The important bit is the pw (primary write) equals your replication value.
&gt;&gt; This means that all copies in the virtual node replica set need to go to
&gt;&gt; virtual nodes allocated to their primary physical machines. This is a way
&gt;&gt; you can check cluster status from the app level as in , is the cluster in
&gt;&gt; some kind of borked state.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; -Alexander

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

