---
title: "Re: allow_mult defaults to false for 2.0.0pre20 in my tests"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-04-02T01:36:23-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13972"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13971"
author_name: "Russell Brown"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-04-02T01:36:23-07:00
---



On 2 Apr 2014, at 09:21, David James  wrote:

&gt; What versions(s) of Riak have allow\_mult=true by default? Which ones have 
&gt; allow\_mult=false by default?

All released versions of Riak have allow\_mult=false for default buckets. All 
release version of Riak only have default buckets.

2.0 will have allow\_mult=true as default for typed buckets, and 
allow\_mult=false for untyped/legacy buckets.

Which pre did it change in? I don’t know. But certainly from pre20 it is the 
case. I think it would be very hard for any client to support different pre 
releases.

Why? As stated by Eric and myself, for backwards compatibility with existing 
data and clusters. But the change to `true` for typed buckets is because we 
think that is the correct way to run Riak.

&gt; 
&gt; I thought this was decided in the early days of Riak. Why the back and forth 
&gt; now?
&gt; 

It was, there is a lot of history. Originally Basho wanted allow\_mult=true, I 
think they opted for false for ease of take up/adoption, but have since 
realised that Riak is safest with allow\_mult=true. The back-and-forth in the 
press reflects I suppose the difficulty of making a decision, and also, the 
difficulty of doing the “right” thing after the “wrong” thing has been done.

Cheers

Russell

&gt; 
&gt; On Wed, Apr 2, 2014 at 4:16 AM, Eric Redmond  wrote:
&gt; This was a changed back a few weeks ago, where allow\_mult is back to false 
&gt; for buckets without a type (default), but is true for buckets with a type.
&gt; 
&gt; Sorry for the back and forth, but we decided it would be better to keep it as 
&gt; false so as to not break existing users. However, we strongly encourage that 
&gt; all users choose typed buckets going forward.
&gt; 
&gt; Eric
&gt; 
&gt; On Apr 2, 2014 1:01 AM, "David James"  wrote:
&gt; In my tests, allow\_mult defaults to false for 2.0.0pre20. This was not the 
&gt; case for 2.0.0pre11; my tests behave correctly under pre11.
&gt; 
&gt; This according to my testing with my Clojure Riak driver, Kria:
&gt; https://github.com/bluemont/kria
&gt; 
&gt; My understanding is that Riak intends allow\_mult to default to true.
&gt; 
&gt; I'm using the Mac builds from:
&gt; \* http://docs.basho.com/riak/2.0.0pre11/downloads/
&gt; \* http://docs.basho.com/riak/2.0.0pre20/downloads/
&gt; 
&gt; I also confirmed this to be the case with a Homebrew installation:
&gt; \* https://github.com/Homebrew/homebrew/blob/master/Library/Formula/riak.rb
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

