---
title: "Re: ubuntu package ERTS version issue"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-04-16T20:58:56-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10906"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg10905"
author_name: "Jared Morrow"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-04-16T20:58:56-07:00
---


This is a known issue that will be fixed in any new packages, it has been
reported here https://github.com/basho/riak/issues/306

I will also make a note to fix the README in the morning, sorry about the
confusion. We do have a lot of repos, so the safe bet is to file it
against github.com/basho/riak in the "Issues" tab, and if it belongs in
another repo someone at Basho will triage it into the right spot. Or, as
you did, write the mailing list.

Sorry again for the troubles, the fix is to s/erts-5.7.5/erts-5.9.1/ as
you've already pointed out.

Thanks,
Jared

On Tue, Apr 16, 2013 at 8:59 PM, N. Tucker &lt;
ntucker-ml-riak-us...@august20th.com&gt; wrote:

&gt; Hello. I've just installed the riak ubuntu package using the instructions
&gt; here:
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/tutorials/installation/Installing-on-Debian-and-Ubuntu/#Installing-From-Apt-Get
&gt;
&gt; And the resulting /usr/lib/riak has an erts-5.9.1 directory, but the init
&gt; script installed in /etc/init.d/riak has a critical var defined as:
&gt;
&gt; ERTS\_PATH=/usr/lib/riak/erts-5.9.1/bin
&gt;
&gt; The result is that none of the init script's "stop" and "restart"
&gt; operations fail since start-stop-daemon is looking for the wrong process
&gt; path.
&gt;
&gt; Is this a known bug? I haven't had much luck searching for issues, as I'm
&gt; not sure which of the many, many repos on https://github.com/basho/ might
&gt; be relevant to this corner of the riak project.
&gt;
&gt; By the way, the README on https://github.com/basho/riak has a "how to
&gt; report bugs" section that sends you to the defunct bugzilla database which
&gt; sends you back to github.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

