---
title: "Re: Tuning a Riak cluster."
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-02-22T14:35:53-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10217"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg10213"
author_name: "Richard Shaw"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-02-22T14:35:53-08:00
---


Hi Kevin,

Always good practise to reply to the mailing list so others can benefit
from the content

basho bench is the best place to start, If you have a working cluster or
even a working single node, follow the benchmarking guide[0]

Please let me see some of the specific errors you're having and we can help
resolve them.

Outside of basho bench, I recommend benchmarking the raw performance of
your VM, you can do this using a variety of tools like iostat, iperf or a
test suite like Phoronix test suite, a very comprehensive FOSS tool[1] look
at the `aio` test

I'd also recommend benchmarking each time you make a configuration change
to really understand how effective that change was

[0]http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/cookbooks/Benchmarking/
[1]http://www.phoronix-test-suite.com/

Kind Regards

Richard


On Fri, Feb 22, 2013 at 10:14 PM, Kevin Burton wrote:

&gt; That was my next question. I have tried to get basho\_bench to work but so
&gt; far have been unsuccessful. If you have a simple "hello world" sample
&gt; config I would greatly appreciate it. I have tried a bunch of configs in
&gt; the examples directory but get met with one error or another.
&gt; Other than that I have just timed various client driver calls. Mostly
&gt; random reads some writes.
&gt;
&gt; On Feb 22, 2013, at 3:48 PM, Richard Shaw  wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Hi Kevin,
&gt;
&gt; What kind of benchmarking have you done on your VMs and what did you use ?
&gt;
&gt; Kind Regards
&gt;
&gt; Richard
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Fri, Feb 22, 2013 at 9:49 AM, Kevin Burton wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Ok I suspected as much. This will give me more ammo when requesting more
&gt;&gt; resources. Thank you.
&gt;&gt; Now, back to the original question. Given that the physical hardware is
&gt;&gt; taken care of. What parameters are most important when tuning a cluster.
&gt;&gt; Again for arguments sake assume the same 4 node cluster with a read-write
&gt;&gt; ratio of about 75 percent.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Feb 21, 2013, at 8:26 PM, Alexander Sicular 
&gt;&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; It can't be said enough times but the number one thing you can do to
&gt;&gt; ensure that you are getting true performance (not to mention redundancy) is
&gt;&gt; to use different physical hardware for each of your nodes. Under no
&gt;&gt; circumstances should you have more than one VM (one logical node in a Riak
&gt;&gt; cluster) on the same physical hardware. Also, use multiple
&gt;&gt; connections/threads/parallelism/whatever on client side and be sure to hit
&gt;&gt; all the nodes in the cluster haproxy roundrobin-esque when writing to Riak.
&gt;&gt; Everything else is in the noise.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; -Alexander Sicular
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; @siculars
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Feb 21, 2013, at 9:04 PM, Kevin Burton 
&gt;&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; There each has about 20-30GB of disk space. They each are a VM so I am
&gt;&gt; not sure how to specify the CPU. They all seem to be 64 bit Intel
&gt;&gt; processors but I could tell you the clock speed. The network is 1Gb
&gt;&gt; Ethernet.\*\*\*\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \*From:\* Sean Carey [mailto:ca...@basho.com]
&gt;&gt; \*Sent:\* Thursday, February 21, 2013 7:59 PM
&gt;&gt; \*To:\* Kevin Burton
&gt;&gt; \*Cc:\* riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; \*Subject:\* Re: Tuning a Riak cluster.\*\*\*\*
&gt;&gt; \*\* \*\*
&gt;&gt; Kevin,\*\*\*\*
&gt;&gt; Disk and CPU, and Network?\*\*\*\*
&gt;&gt; \*\* \*\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Sean Carey
&gt;&gt; @densone\*\*\*\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Thursday, February 21, 2013 at 20:31, Kevin Burton wrote:\*\*\*\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \*\*\*\*
&gt;&gt; I have a cluster of 4 machines (4 Linux VM machines each allocated about
&gt;&gt; 1 Gb of memory – yea I know it isn’t a lot). I would like to get some
&gt;&gt; pointers on getting the fastest query time possible given these meager
&gt;&gt; resources. Thank you.\*\*\*\*
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\*\*\*\*
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list\*\*\*\*
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com\*\*\*\*
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com\*\*\*\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \*\* \*\*
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

