---
title: "Re: Riak Search and Yokozuna Backup Strategy"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-01-20T15:40:23-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13419"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13394"
author_name: "Elias Levy"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-01-20T15:40:23-08:00
---


Anyone from Basho care to comment?


On Thu, Jan 16, 2014 at 10:19 AM, Elias Levy wrote:

&gt;
&gt; Also, while LevelDB appears to be largely an append only format, the
&gt; documentation currently does not recommend live backups, presumably because
&gt; there are some issues that can crop up if restoring a DB that was not
&gt; cleanly shutdown.
&gt;
&gt; I am guessing those issues are the ones documented as edge cases here:
&gt; https://github.com/basho/leveldb/wiki/repair-notes
&gt;
&gt; That said, it looks like as of 1.4 those are largely cleared up, at least
&gt; from what I gather from that page, and that one must only ensure that data
&gt; is copied in a certain order and that you run the LevelDB repair algorithm
&gt; when retiring the files.
&gt;
&gt; So is the backup documentation on LevelDB still correct? Will Basho will
&gt; enable hot backups on LevelDB backends any time soon?
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Thu, Jan 16, 2014 at 10:05 AM, Elias Levy 
&gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; How well does Riak Search play with backups? Can you backup the Riak
&gt;&gt; Search data without bringing the node down?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; The Riak documentation backup page is completely silent on Riak Search
&gt;&gt; and its merge\_index backend.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; And looking forward, what is the backup strategy for Yokozuna? Will it
&gt;&gt; make use of Solr's Replication Handler, or something more lower level?
&gt;&gt; Will the node need to be offline to backup it up?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

