---
title: "Re: Bug: Stanchion 1.5 in repo along riak cs 2.0"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-06-07T18:54:59-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16223"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16216"
author_name: "Kota Uenishi"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-06-07T18:54:59-07:00
---


Toby,

I tried to reproduce your problem in my clean ubuntu 14.04 which is a fresh
docker image, but failed. No recommendation was made. Maybe state of your
apt repository or something is stale?

# apt-get install riak-cs=2.0.1-1

Reading package lists... Done

Building dependency tree

Reading state information... Done

The following NEW packages will be installed:

 riak-cs

0 upgraded, 1 newly installed, 0 to remove and 25 not upgraded.

Need to get 20.1 MB of archives.

After this operation, 36.8 MB of additional disk space will be used.

Fetched 20.1 MB in 6s (3322 kB/s)

Selecting previously unselected package riak-cs.

(Reading database ... 12002 files and directories currently installed.)

Preparing to unpack .../riak-cs\_2.0.1-1\_amd64.deb ...

Unpacking riak-cs (2.0.1-1) ...

Processing triggers for ureadahead (0.100.0-16) ...

Setting up riak-cs (2.0.1-1) ...

Adding group `riak' (GID 105) ...

Done.

Adding system user `riakcs' (UID 102) ...

Adding new user `riakcs' (UID 102) with group `riak' ...

Not creating home directory `/var/lib/riak-cs'.

Processing triggers for ureadahead (0.100.0-16) ...

# apt-get install stanchion=2.0.0-1

Reading package lists... Done

Building dependency tree

Reading state information... Done

The following NEW packages will be installed:

 stanchion

0 upgraded, 1 newly installed, 0 to remove and 25 not upgraded.

Need to get 18.4 MB of archives.

After this operation, 34.0 MB of additional disk space will be used.

Fetched 18.4 MB in 5s (3163 kB/s)

Selecting previously unselected package stanchion.

(Reading database ... 13780 files and directories currently installed.)

Preparing to unpack .../stanchion\_2.0.0-1\_amd64.deb ...

Unpacking stanchion (2.0.0-1) ...

Processing triggers for ureadahead (0.100.0-16) ...

Setting up stanchion (2.0.0-1) ...

Adding system user `stanchion' (UID 103) ...

Adding new user `stanchion' (UID 103) with group `riak' ...

Not creating home directory `/var/lib/stanchion'.

Processing triggers for ureadahead (0.100.0-16) ...

#


On Fri, Jun 5, 2015 at 11:40 PM, Matthew Brender  wrote:

&gt; For others not finding it, the instructions show up here:
&gt;
&gt; https://packagecloud.io/basho/riak-cs/packages/ubuntu/trusty/riak-cs\_2.0.0-1\_amd64.deb
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Matt Brender | Developer Advocacy Lead
&gt; Basho Technologies
&gt; t: @mjbrender
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Fri, Jun 5, 2015 at 2:11 AM, Toby Corkindale  wrote:
&gt; &gt; Hi Kota,
&gt; &gt; I'm installing Riak CS upon Ubuntu 14.04 (trusty), and was doing this by
&gt; &gt; following the instructions to add the packagecloud.io Apt repository.
&gt; &gt; However that repository contains stanchion 1.5 rather than 2.0. (It does,
&gt; &gt; however, contain Riak CS 2.0.1)
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Cheers
&gt; &gt; Toby
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; On Fri, 5 Jun 2015 at 13:02 Kota Uenishi  wrote:
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; Toby, thank you for reporting. However, I could not figure out which
&gt; &gt;&gt; part of the doc is wrong and leading to Stanchion 1.5. Could you
&gt; &gt;&gt; elaborate more details?
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; Technically, it is correct to use Stanchion 2.0 with Riak CS 2.0.1.
&gt; &gt;&gt; And more, difference between Stanchion 2.0 and 1.5 is very small, it's
&gt; &gt;&gt; just about configuration file format, and several items.
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; On Thu, Jun 4, 2015 at 1:45 PM, Toby Corkindale  wrote:
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; Hi,
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; I think this is a bug?
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; Riak CS 2.0.1 recommends Stanchion 2.0.0 to be installed.
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; However if you follow the instructions to add the Riak CS repo, you
&gt; get
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; Riak
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; CS 2.0.1, and Stanchion 1.5.0.
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; Toby
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; --
&gt; &gt;&gt; Kota UENISHI / @kuenishi
&gt; &gt;&gt; Basho Japan KK
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;
&gt;



-- 
Kota UENISHI / @kuenishi
Basho Japan KK
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

