---
title: "Re: LMDB Backend for Riak"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-05-03T11:06:15-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11012"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg10999"
author_name: "Jon Meredith"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-05-03T11:06:15-07:00
---


Hi Brian,

Experimental backends for Riak are always exciting. I haven't played with
it personally, and Basho has no current plans to support it as a leveldb
alternative.

It's worth adding two notes of caution. First, stores that use mmap for
persistence can suffer from problems around dirty pages. If you have a
very low update volume and a nice hot set that the operating system can
keep the pages in memory they work nicely.

On some operating systems (specifically Linux), if you have a high update
load, and consequently a large volume of dirty pages (more than
dirty\_ratio), I believe all OS level threads for the process are suspended
until the condition is resolved by writing out the pages when the process
is scheduled.

This is bad for latencies in endurance tests. For something like LDAP
this tradeoff is probably a good one, for Riak it concerns me, and other
platforms may be better behaved to make the option interesting, and the
linux kernel may have begun

Second, I worry about crash resilience - can the internal memory structures
tolerate a kernel panic where the dirty pages are not written, or
potentially worse torn with a partial write.

Good luck with your experiments,

Jon



On Wed, May 1, 2013 at 11:05 AM, Brian Hong  wrote:

&gt; OpenLDAP Lightning Memory-Mapped Database seems to be getting traction for
&gt; it's high performance and similar query (iteration) functionality with
&gt; leveldb:
&gt; http://symas.com/mdb/
&gt;
&gt; There seems to be an experimental backend for Riak:
&gt;
&gt; https://github.com/alepharchives/emdb
&gt;
&gt; Does anybody know of it's usefulness? Is there any benchmarks on it?
&gt;
&gt; I've heard that leveldb suffers write performance issues:
&gt; https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=5621884
&gt;
&gt; Any chances of Basho guys supporting lmdb as an leveldb alternative to
&gt; Riak? It would be awesome! :D
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Brian(Sung-jin) Hong
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;


-- 
Jon Meredith
VP, Engineering
Basho Technologies, Inc.
jmered...@basho.com
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

