---
title: "Re: are Siblings ordered?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-10-07T21:45:29-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12540"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12531"
author_name: "Pedram Nimreezi"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-10-07T21:45:29-07:00
---


I'd like to see the dotted version vectors get launched, even with merging
siblings high concurrency = high amount of unnecessary siblings,
Which wastes space and impacts performance. Dotted version vectors helps
improve this. Proof of concept and paper available...
On Oct 7, 2013 3:06 PM, "Sam Elliott"  wrote:

&gt; Each sibling has it's own last-modified date, which you should be able to
&gt; use to sort them when you get them back.
&gt;
&gt; However, I'd suggest the following: if they're siblings, they were created
&gt; from concurrent edits. Thus, create a merge function that is entirely
&gt; deterministic without using the timestamp. This should save you from any
&gt; clock skew issues, and also from the fact that an edit may not have been
&gt; performed with the most up-to-date information.
&gt;
&gt; I guess people can't wait for our CRDTs to launch.
&gt;
&gt; Sam
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Sam Elliott
&gt; Engineer
&gt; sam.elli...@basho.com
&gt; --
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Monday, 7 October 2013 at 2:47PM, Alex Rice wrote:
&gt;
&gt; &gt; Yes, exactly that's what I'm working on. By knowing which sibling is
&gt; &gt; the oldest and which is the newest it seems like I can usually figure
&gt; &gt; out how to marge/apply the modifications. Things like Player profiles,
&gt; &gt; friends lists, etc.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; On Mon, Oct 7, 2013 at 12:43 PM, Jeremiah Peschka
&gt; &gt;  wrote:
&gt; &gt; &gt; There's no guarantee of return order as far as I know. Since you can't
&gt; count
&gt; &gt; &gt; on clocks anyway...
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; Are you trying to determine which data modifications to apply from
&gt; multiple
&gt; &gt; &gt; siblings?
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; ---
&gt; &gt; &gt; sent from a tiny portion of the hive mind...
&gt; &gt; &gt; in this case, a phone
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; On Oct 7, 2013 11:40 AM, "Alex Rice"  a...@mindlube.com)&gt; wrote:
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; Are they ordered by timestamp, and is the ordering guaranteed?
&gt; (within
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; the clock accuracy of course). Using the C# client Thanks,
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; Alex
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

