---
title: "Re: Siblings on first write to a key"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2017-04-18T04:53:01-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg18157"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg18156"
author_name: "Magnus Kessler"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2017-04-18T04:53:01-07:00
---


On 18 April 2017 at 08:20, Daniel Abrahamsson  wrote:

&gt; I've run into a case where I got a sbiling error/response on the first
&gt; ever write to a key. I would like to understand how this could happen.
&gt; Normally when you get siblings, it is because you have written a value
&gt; with an out-of-date vclock. But since this is the first write, there
&gt; is no vclock. Could someone shed some light on this for me?
&gt;
&gt; It is worth to mention that the it took 3 seconds for Riak to deliver
&gt; the response, so it is possible there was some kind of network issue
&gt; at the time.
&gt;
&gt; Here are some details about my setup:
&gt; Number of nodes: 8.
&gt; n\_val: 5
&gt; write options: pw: 3 (quorum), return\_body
&gt;
&gt; Regards,
&gt; Daniel Abrahamsson
&gt;


Hi Daniel,

Please let me know if all nodes in this cluster were set up completely
fresh, with empty backend directories, or if any of them had been used
before for a Riak installation. If the latter is the case, it may be that
the key in question had already been used once before. Cluster nodes pick
up data from pre-existing backends.

How do you access the key for read and write operations?

Kind Regards,

Magnus


Magnus Kessler
Client Services Engineer
Basho Technologies Limited

Registered Office - 8 Lincoln’s Inn Fields London WC2A 3BP Reg 07970431
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

