---
title: "Re: Highlighting in full-text search"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-05-04T02:53:25-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14178"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14177"
author_name: "Chaim Solomon"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-05-04T02:53:25-07:00
---


Ok - figured it out.

I had to modify the schema:
 

It is implicit in the table
http://docs.basho.com/riak/2.0.0beta1/dev/advanced/search-schema/#Field-Properties-By-Use-Case

But I would suggest adding explicit examples to the documentation - at
least for the features in the feature list.

Chaim Solomon



On Sun, May 4, 2014 at 9:07 AM, Chaim Solomon wrote:

&gt; Thanks.
&gt; I am not getting a highlighting section - but the values are empty.
&gt; I am using the default schema - what do I need to change for the
&gt; highlighting to work?
&gt;
&gt; Chaim Solomon
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Thu, May 1, 2014 at 11:19 PM, Hector Castro  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi Chaim,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; In order to take advantage of the Riak Search/Solr highlighting
&gt;&gt; capabilities from Python (right now), you're best bet may be to use a
&gt;&gt; Python Solr client for queries. The Riak client for Python is still not
&gt;&gt; 100% compatible with Riak 2.0 (although the master branch has some
&gt;&gt; support). [0]
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Using the examples provided in the basic usage for search documentation
&gt;&gt; [1], I was able to retrieve highlighting snippets via HTTP using the
&gt;&gt; following set of query string parameters:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; $ curl -s
&gt;&gt; "$RIAK\_HOST/search/famous?wt=json&hl=true&hl.fl=name\_s&q=name\_s:Lion\*" |
&gt;&gt; python -mjson.tool | grep -A6 "highlighting"
&gt;&gt; "highlighting": {
&gt;&gt; "default\_yzbucket\_liono\_54": {
&gt;&gt; "name\_s": [
&gt;&gt; "*Lion-o*"
&gt;&gt; ]
&gt;&gt; }
&gt;&gt; },
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; (Note the  *tags surrounding the term that matches the query.)
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; Hector
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; [0] https://github.com/basho/riak-python-client
&gt;&gt; [1] http://docs.basho.com/riak/2.0.0beta1/dev/using/search/
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Thu, May 1, 2014 at 5:02 AM, Chaim Solomon 
&gt;&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt; &gt; Hi,
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; I am not able to figure out how to get the highlighting to work.
&gt;&gt; &gt; I am using 2.0.0beta1 which states that it supports highlighting - but
&gt;&gt; it
&gt;&gt; &gt; seems not really documented besides the reference to the Solr
&gt;&gt; documentation.
&gt;&gt; &gt; I am using the Python client.
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; The documentation states that I need to set hl=true. But where?
&gt;&gt; &gt; It doesn't seem to be one of the parameters that the method search
&gt;&gt; accepts
&gt;&gt; &gt; (looked in the source code).
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; How do I get that parameter into the search?
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; Can anyone provide an example?
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; Chaim Solomon
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com*