---
title: "Re: Import big data to Riak"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-10-29T08:35:39-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12791"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12789"
author_name: "Russell Brown"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-10-29T08:35:39-07:00
---


Hi Georgi,

All Guido’s (below) advice is good. If you are just importing unique items, I 
would set the bucket property to LWW=true for the import, it will be much 
faster since Riak will not do N local reads for vclock data.

Cheers

Russell

On 29 Oct 2013, at 15:21, Guido Medina  wrote:

&gt; Your tests are not close to what you are going to have in production IMHO, 
&gt; here are few recommendations:
&gt; • Build a cluster with at least 5 nodes with N=3 and R=W=2 (You can 
&gt; update your bucket properties via PBC with Java)
&gt; • Use PBC instead of HTTP.
&gt; • If you are only importing data call 
&gt; .store()....withoutFetch().execute() to avoid unnecessary roundtrips.
&gt; If you test using unrealistic scenarios you will find unpleasant surprises 
&gt; when you are about to be go live so better to set your expectations right at 
&gt; the beginning.
&gt; HTH,
&gt; Guido.
&gt; On 29/10/13 14:59, Georgi Ivanov wrote:
&gt;&gt; Hello,
&gt;&gt; I am importing some big data to Riak. 
&gt;&gt; I am importing like 10GB per day and i have to import one year of data. 
&gt;&gt; The task is to speed up the initial import. After that i will import on 
&gt;&gt; daily 
&gt;&gt; basis, so the speed is not very important.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; I am using JAVA HTTP client. So far my test show that the fastest setup is 
&gt;&gt; to 
&gt;&gt; use n\_val 1 and import to single server.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; I tested importing on 2 servers (with n\_val:2), but it is actually slower.
&gt;&gt; My JAVA client is multi-threaded.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; My idea is to use n\_val:1 on single node, then increase the n\_val:2 and add 
&gt;&gt; one more node to the cluster. The problem is that i don't see the storage to 
&gt;&gt; grow when i change n\_val : 2
&gt;&gt; I was looking at Riak Active Anti-Entropy feature and i am expecting my 
&gt;&gt; storage to grow after i increase the n\_val. Unfortunately this is not the 
&gt;&gt; case 
&gt;&gt; or i don't understand AAE feature ....
&gt;&gt; I can't any changes in storage size at all. I don't want to go in direction 
&gt;&gt; of 
&gt;&gt; force repair as it would take forever.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Can anyone shed some light on AAE ? Or any tips for speeding up the import 
&gt;&gt; in 
&gt;&gt; general.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; To summarize the situation :
&gt;&gt; 1. One Riak node with n\_val : 1 , eLevelDb as back-end
&gt;&gt; 2. Import data.
&gt;&gt; 3. Change n\_val to 2
&gt;&gt; 4. Join one more node to the cluster.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; What i expect to happen :
&gt;&gt; To have all the keys distributed to 2 riak nodes with n\_val:2
&gt;&gt; So if i had 1TB of data on node1 with n\_val:1 , after changing to n\_val 2 
&gt;&gt; and 
&gt;&gt; joining one more node, to have 1TB of data on each node.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

