---
title: "Re: OTP 19 support"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2017-05-30T04:53:41-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg18248"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg18247"
author_name: "Torben Hoffmann"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2017-05-30T04:53:41-07:00
---


The rebar3 branch of riak\_core is very far along - as I recall it works
in OTP-19 and \_should\_ work in OTP-20.

I cannot remember the name of the equivalent branch in riak\_kv - perhaps
Ted can shed some light on that.

Cheers,
Torben


Russell Brown  writes:

&gt; Ugh, sent it too fast, sorry. I also meant to add:
&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; AFAIK, there are still quite a few remaining issues in Riak's code base 
&gt;&gt;&gt; that need to be resolved before the database itself can be compiled and run 
&gt;&gt;&gt; on OTP-19+
&gt;
&gt; Is there a list of them somewhere so that the community can pitch in and help?
&gt;
&gt; On 30 May 2017, at 07:26, Russell Brown  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On 29 May 2017, at 10:11, Magnus Kessler  wrote:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; On 27 May 2017 at 10:43, Senthilkumar Peelikkampatti  
&gt;&gt;&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt; Any timeline for upgrading Riak to OTP 19? OTP 20 is expected in few weeks. 
&gt;&gt;&gt; It is holding us back niceties like improved maps etc. from the upgrade.
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt;&gt; Senthil
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Hi Senthil,
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; AFAIK, there are still quite a few remaining issues in Riak's code base 
&gt;&gt;&gt; that need to be resolved before the database itself can be compiled and run 
&gt;&gt;&gt; on OTP-19+.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Is there a timeline for when they might be resolved? An idea as to when an 
&gt;&gt; OTP19 Riak might be released?
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; However, IIRC the Riak Erlang Client can be compiled on OTP-19, and some 
&gt;&gt;&gt; preliminary testing I did last year suggests that it works OK. If you go 
&gt;&gt;&gt; down that route, please test your own build of the Riak Erlang Client 
&gt;&gt;&gt; carefully.
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Kind Regards,
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Magnus
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; -- 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Magnus Kessler
&gt;&gt;&gt; Client Services Engineer
&gt;&gt;&gt; Basho Technologies Limited
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Registered Office - 8 Lincoln’s Inn Fields London WC2A 3BP Reg 07970431
&gt;&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

-- 
Torben Hoffmann
Chief Architect, basho.com
M: +45 25 14 05 38

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

