---
title: "Re: reversing node removal?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-04-15T09:46:40-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14092"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14091"
author_name: "Allen Landsidel"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-04-15T09:46:40-07:00
---


I realize I made a mistake, it would just be nice if the UI could warn 
me that I was about to do so, especially given the consequences.


If it was simply showing me how much space each node was using (forget a 
percentage or anything) that would've been enough to avert disaster. 
With four nodes, if they're over 25% capacity (far lower than any 
sensible warning level in a monitoring system), the cluster leave is 
going to fail. The more nodes you add to the system, the lower you'd 
have to set that warning threshold to alert you that you're in a state 
where you can't safely retire a node.


On 4/15/2014 12:40, Luke Bakken wrote:

Hi Allen -

Failure / node leave situations should be taken into account during
cluster capacity planning. I've created an issue to more thoroughly
explain this in our documentation:

https://github.com/basho/basho\_docs/issues/1034

--
Luke Bakken
CSE
lbak...@basho.com 


On Tue, Apr 15, 2014 at 9:28 AM, Allen Landsidel
&gt; wrote:

 Luke,

 I already do use nagios for that, but the disk space was fine before
 I told one of the nodes to leave the cluster. That's my problem --
 there was not enough free space in the cluster for it to move all
 that nodes data. It accepted the leave and then ran me out of disk
 space on all the other nodes, with no way to abort or recover.

 My only option was to add more space to the other nodes (as you
 said, adding new nodes will not work until the leave is done), which
 is easy enough in a virtualized environment but requires downtime.
 In a bare metal environment, it could be catastrophic to the cluster.


 On 4/15/2014 12:19, Luke Bakken wrote:

 Hi Allen,

 Cluster leave does not check for disk space and in general, Riak
 is not
 aware of how much space it has available to itself (most db systems
 don't monitor disk space I think). I'll send a note to product
 management about this. We recommend using a monitoring solution
 (like
 collectd + graphite) to keep an eye on available disk space.


 --
 Luke Bakken
 CSE
 lbak...@basho.com 
&gt;



\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

