---
title: "Re: Scaling up or out"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-12-05T21:15:49-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg09447"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg09445"
author_name: "Ken Perkins"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-12-05T21:15:49-08:00
---


VMs, not the same host, rackspace has VM affinity to protect against that.
We do see a fair amount of IO Wait.

Rackspace has a new affinity based SSD block device service that I plan to
evaluate, but I'm not ready for that in production.


On Wed, Dec 5, 2012 at 7:45 PM, Sean Carey  wrote:

> Ken,
> Are your vms on different bare metal? Could they potentially be on the
> same bare metal?
>
> Are you seeing any io contention?
>
>
> Sean Carey
> @densone
>
> On Wednesday, December 5, 2012 at 20:41, Ken Perkins wrote:
>
> Yes, we're thrashing on all of the boxes, due to disk access when looking
> through merge\_index. It's not noisy neighbors, given how consistent the
> thrashing is. We had a box with a corrupted index (we had to remove
> merge\_index and rebuild) and that machine instantly went to 0% thrashing.
> So we have a pretty good indication of the source.
>
> The cost for 10 8GB VMs is roughly equivalent to 5 16GB ones.
>
> Thanks for your input Michael!
>
> Ken
>
>
> On Wed, Dec 5, 2012 at 4:47 PM, Michael Johnson wrote:
>
> There are a lot of things that go into this, but I would tend to suggest
> in a hosted VM senario, upping the ram is likely the right solution.
>
> You mention thrashing, but what is that thrashing coming from? I assume
> all the boxes are thrashing and not just one or two of them? Is it due to
> swapping or is it just the raw disk access? Maybe you logging
> too aggressively?
>
> Perhaps your are suffering from a bad neighbor effect. If this is the
> case, increasing the amount of ram will likely put you on a physical host
> with few customers and thus you would be less likely to have a bad neighbor.
>
> Cost-wise in the VM world, you might be better off adding a few nodes
> rather than increasing the ram in your existing vm's.
>
> But then we are talking VMs and thus it should be fairly painless to
> experiment. I would try adding ram first and if that doesn't work, add a
> few nodes. Someone else my have a different opinion, but that is my two
> cents.
>
>
> On Wed, Dec 5, 2012 at 4:33 PM, Ken Perkins  wrote:
>
> Hello all,
>
> We're seeing enough thrashing and low-memory on our production ring that
> we've decided to upgrade our hardware. The real question is should we scale
> up or out.
>
> Currently our ring is 512 partitions. We know that it's a sub-optimal size
> but we can't easily solve that now. We're currently running a search-heavy
> app on 5 8GB VMs. I'm debating between moving the VMs up to 16GB, or adding
> a few more 8GB VMs.
>
> Some of the talk in #riak has pushed me towards adding more machines (thus
> lowering the per node number of partitions) but I wanted to do a quick
> sanity check here with folks that it's better than scaling up my current
> machines.
>
> Thanks!
> Ken Perkins
> clipboard.com
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

