---
title: "Re: bitcask and innostore overheads"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-07-06T13:18:16-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00683"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg00681"
author_name: "Sean Cribbs"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-07-06T13:18:16-07:00
---


Jeremy,

I'm glad to see you're still looking at Riak.

Regarding your bitcask question, that does seem to be in the correct range of 
sizes. Dave (@dizzyco) tells me the actual figure is 24 bytes + the hashtable 
overhead.

Inno does pad things to fixed-size pages, so yes, you could end up with wasted 
disk. However, I would suspect the greater concern would be excessive 
invalidation of the buffer pool from the essentially random/uniform shape of 
your key-space, making it difficult to get good throughput. Inno works best 
when keys are inserted in sequential order.

Sean Cribbs 
Developer Advocate
Basho Technologies, Inc.
http://basho.com/

On Jul 6, 2010, at 3:36 PM, Jeremy Hinegardner wrote:

> Hi all,
> 
> I am doing some sizing estimates for a possible transition to riak of
> our document store. I've mentioned it before on this list before and
> in #riak and this is a snippet of a conversation I had with @seancribbs:
> 
> https://gist.github.com/c3838e5c421d6ab21c93
> 
> I have also reviewed the bitcask-intro.pdf and http://gist.github.com/438065
> 
> Quick and dirty info, I am looking to store billions of documents, starting
> with 2 billion initially, and a linear growth of around 10 million per day.
> 
> The key is a 64bit number as a string (generaly about 20 bytes) and the value 
> is
> a text/xml document of an average size of 1.5KiB. This size long tails out to
> maybe 5 MiB. 
> 
> Our system is write once. A key/value pair should never be overwritten once it
> is initially inserted, and it is accessed fairly often for about a day, and 
> then
> a long tail drop off. The pair must be available for retrieval at any time.
> 
> == Bitcask ==
> 
> I went into the source of bitcask to confirm the 32 bytes per key minimum
> memory requirements mentioned in http://gist.github.com/438065 and turned
> up:
> 
> http://github.com/basho/bitcask/blob/master/c\_src/bitcask\_nifs.c#L37
> 
> If my calculations are correct, the actual memory overhead, per key using 
> bitcask is 72+N bytes on a 64bit system:
> 
> UT\_hash\_handle -> 50 bytes, (6 pointers and 2 chars)
> file\_id -> 4 bytes,
> total\_sz -> 4 bytes,
> offset -> 8 bytes,
> tstamp -> 4 bytes,
> key\_sz -> 2 bytes,
> key -> N bytes - how big is this? is this the riak key, 
> or a hash of the riak key?
> 
> This adds up to 72 bytes + the size of the key, per key/value in bitcask.
> 
> If I assume that the key is 20 bytes, then we are talking 92 bytes of memory
> overhead per document. That means I can store, ~11 million documents per GiB 
> of
> free memory (1024^3 / 92), Or, if I have 32GiB of free ram on a machine
> to dedicate to riak w/bitcask (the rest would be used for diskcache) I
> can store ~373 Million documents.
> 
> Are my calculations correct?
> 
> It also does not look like bitcask pads values on disk, so there is no wasted
> disk space. Is this correct?
> 
> == Innostore ==
> 
> For Innostore I'm not so worried about the memory overhead as insertion 
> overhead
> and wasted disk space.
> 
> Since InnoDB stores data in key order and our keys are esssentially random 
> 64bit
> numbers as strings, are we going to have a significant overhead in our
> insertions? 
> 
> Using innostore, will there be any key/value padding on the data which
> would cause an overhead per row of disk usage?
> 
> Also, we currently compress the data on on disk, and I would interested in 
> hearing how the compression of disk pages with innostore works.
> 
> thanks,
> 
> -jeremy
> 
> -- 
> ========================================================================
> Jeremy Hinegardner jer...@hinegardner.org 
> 
> 
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

