---
title: "[ANN] Riak Release 0.11.0"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-06-09T12:56:14-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00543"
author_name: "Jon Meredith"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-06-09T12:56:14-07:00

---


Hello, Riak users. We are excited to announce the release of Riak 
version 0.11.


Pre-built installations and source tarballs are available at: 
http://downloads.basho.com/


Release notes are at (also copied below): 
http://downloads.basho.com/riak/riak-0.11/riak-0.11.0.txt


IMPORTANT: If you are upgrading an existing Riak cluster, please read 
the transition document at 
http://bitbucket.org/basho/riak/src/4235ceeb8d6/TRANSITION


Cheers,
The Basho Riak Team

-------------------------
Riak 0.11.0 Release Notes
-------------------------

Bitcask has arrived as the new default backend for Riak. Bitcask is Basho's
new key/value store that should provide good balanced performance out
of the box on most systems. Read more about it from the initial
announcement here http://blog.basho.com/2010/04/27/hello,-bitcask/

Users that wish to upgrade from another backend will need to backup their
cluster (using riak-admin) before changing the backend in app.config, 
restart

riak and restore from the backup into bitcask.

The protocol buffers client (PBC) interface has been enhanced to
add map/reduce support and access to simple bucket properties. The
erlang and python clients have been updated accordingly.

Put operations using the local erlang client that request a returnbody
have received a performance enhancement. Internally the put operation
now returns the body directly, so an additional get is no longer
required. The PBC and HTTP interfaces have been updated to use
this new mechanism.

Enhancements
--------
 58 - provide default content-type of application/octet-stream if none
 present in the object.
 74 - create ring directory if non-existant
142 - riak-admin leave restored

Bugs Fixed
----------
 35 - {error, blah} messages are now passed on to javascript map/reduce 
jobs

104 - missing bucket/key into map/reduce job crashed it. Fixed.
193 - list keys sometimes uses downed nodes. Fixed.
208 - deleting a key with a post-commit hook set crashed riak. Fixed.


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

