---
title: "Re: Informal survey about Python client API changes"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-07-24T09:23:16-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08048"
author_name: "Arsenio Santos"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-07-24T09:23:16-07:00

---


Hi there, Sean! These sound great (especially #2, for our specific needs).
--
\*Arsenio Santos\*
Circa Co-Founder & CTO
http://cir.ca · @circa 



> From: Sean Cribbs 
> To: riak-users 
> Subject: Informal survey about Python client API changes
> Message-ID:
>  ov6khpqaffmjt7ajzgzh+mhhlzvm-oghodd63...@mail.gmail.com>
> Content-Type: text/plain; charset="iso-8859-1"
>
> Hey riak-users,
>
> I've begun adding Riak 1.2-related features to the Python client. As I am
> doing so, I am reminded about how much technical debt exists in the client,
> as discussed at length previously on Github and this mailing list. Because
> I know some of you are using the client in production or as a component of
> another library, I'd like to assess what risks there are in removing or
> changing certain features. Here's my plan:
>
> 1. Remove all the set\_r/get\_r-style methods for quorums. Instead,
> RiakBucket will have custom object-properties for these that let you set
> the corresponding quorums in the bucket-properties, but will not be the
> sort of cascading-preference behavior that it is currently. If you want
> to
> change a quorum when fetching, storing, or deleting a key, you can pass
> it
> with keyword arguments to the appropriate method.
> 2. Remove the edge-case-ridden ConnectionManager for a pair of resource
> pools for each protocol, like what is available in the Ruby client.
> Access
> to a connection would be granted via a 'with' statement, naturally, and
> the
> protocol selected would be based on the stated preference of the user,
> or
> on whether the transport supports the given feature. For example, stats
> would always use HTTP. We could also take this opportunity to add
> error-sensitive host selection and automatic retries to the client.
> 3. Merge the RiakSearch class into the RiakClient class and push some of
> its functionality down into the connection classes.
>
> I intend to make the Python client ready for the 1.2 release without these
> refactorings, but I would greatly appreciate your feedback before starting
> the above items.
>
> --
> Sean Cribbs 
> Software Engineer
> Basho Technologies, Inc.
> http://basho.com/
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

