---
title: "Re: Riak search. Different results (XML - JSON)"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-09-04T22:24:26-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08452"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg08369"
author_name: "Ryan Zezeski"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-09-04T22:24:26-07:00
---


On Mon, Aug 27, 2012 at 10:23 AM, Vladimir Shapovalov
wrote:

> Thank you for the explanation.
>
> It looks like the serialization routine in one case (solr) encodes 
> characters\_to\_binary()
> and by normal fetch not. Assuming we fetch in JSON in both cases.
>

No, Olav is incorrect in his analysis of the code. The
unicode:characters\_to\_binary call is only made in
riak\_search\_utils:to\_utf8. This function is used to convert incoming data
only. Erlang likes unicode data in binaries, to\_utf8 converts anything
non-binary via the unicode API. In your case this doesn't apply since
mochijson2 is already decoding your value as a binary. It won't even pass
through the characters\_to\_binary call. This is not why you are seeing
escaped unicode in your JSON.

By default mochijson2 escapes unicode (see
https://github.com/mochi/mochiweb/blob/master/src/mochijson2.erl#L295).
 There is an option to emit unicode as UTF8 byte sequences. You do this by
calling mochijson2:encoder([{utf8, true}]) which returns a function. The
problem with this is that function returns an iolist which may not be
appropriately understood by whatever is receiving it. E.g. an io:format
call, even with the unicode modifier, will produce incorrect results.

113> Enc = mochijson2:encoder([{utf8,true}]).

#Fun
114> io:format("~ts~n", [Enc({struct, [{street,
unicode:characters\_to\_binary("Sabinastraße")}]})]).
{"street":"SabinastraÃŸe"}
ok
115> io:format("~ts~n", [mochijson2:encode({struct, [{street,
unicode:characters\_to\_binary("Sabinastraße")}]})]).
{"street":"Sabinastra\u00dfe"}
ok

In fact, I think once in the form of an io\_list() and no longer chardata()
you are in trouble without some custom code. I think mochijson2 would have
to change to return chardata() to achieve your desired result. I don't
think it would be too hard of a patch but it is late and my tired brain is
shutting down.

Sorry if this was more technical an answer than you wanted. I wanted the
reasons to be clear rather than leave you with a shallow "no."


>
> On Sun, Aug 26, 2012 at 6:07 PM, Olav Frengstad  wrote:
>
>> The current implementation uses mochiweb2 to serialize JSON. By itself
>> mochijson2 produces the output you expect (src/riak\_solr\_output.erl):
>>
>> 55> io:format("~s~n", [mochijson2:encode("Sabinastraße")]).
>> [83,97,98,105,110,97,115,116,114,97,223,101]
>>
>
No, what you passed here is not an object but an array. It should be
{struct, [{street, unicode:characters\_to\_binary("Sabinastraße")}]}. The
value must be a binary and you can't simply do <<"Sabinastraße">> or
list\_to\_binary("Sabinastraße") because it produces bad UTF-8 and mochijson2
will tell you so.

-Z
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

