---
title: "Re: Riak Development Environments"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-03-28T16:03:33-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg02766"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg02762"
author_name: "Jeremiah Peschka"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-03-28T16:03:33-07:00
---


You can pick up some HP Micro servers for dirt cheap.
http://h10010.www1.hp.com/wwpc/us/en/sm/WF05a/15351-15351-4237916-4237918-4237917-4248009.html

I haven't tried setting them up yet (no room in the current domicile) but I
suspect it'd be great for development.

Jeremiah Peschka
Microsoft SQL Server MVP
MCITP: Database Developer, DBA


On Mon, Mar 28, 2011 at 1:30 PM, Ryan Zezeski  wrote:

> At my current job I've had the luxury of 4 dell poweredge servers (CentOS,
> 128GB, 1-2TB disk, 16-core).
>
> However, I've been seriously considering either buying some old 1Us and
> building my own rack in the basement OR 3 used mac mini's from eBay (I'm
> single so I can do stuff like this). The nice thing about mini's is they
> travel...plus they're so darn cute. The nice thing about an actual rack is
> it is (probably?) closer to real production deployments.
>
> I'm also tempted to use older hardware just b/c if you can make it more
> efficient there then the shinier stuff \_should\_ automatically get a boost.
> Although I supposed stuff like NUMA vs. SMP could bite you? I'm curious to
> hear what others think.
>
> Mark, are you allowed to share any statistics related to the setups of
> actual production users?
>
> -Ryan
>
>
> On Mon, Mar 28, 2011 at 3:27 PM, Mark Phillips  wrote:
>
>> I was going to make this part of today's Recap, but upon further
>> thinking I concluded that it might deserve its own thread...
>>
>> @wmacgyver, @russelldb, and some others exchanged a few messages on
>> Twitter yesterday about what dev setup they are using for their
>> respective Riak work.
>>
>> wmacgyver's response was: "3 macmini server 2.66ghz with 8gb, raid 1
>> 500gb=your own ec2 7.5gb node with 500gb ebs. Every dev has a set."
>> [1]
>>
>> Anyone else care to share their setup? Or have any questions about
>> what your dev setup should look like?
>>
>> Mark
>>
>> 1 - http://twitter.com/wmacgyver/statuses/52117875980386304
>>
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>
>
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

