---
title: "Re: Is Riak suitable for s small-record write-intensive	billion-records application?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-10-22T07:00:51-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08996"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg08979"
author_name: "Jared Morrow"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-10-22T07:00:51-07:00
---


If anyone would like a comparison of Riak to Couchbase with citations for
each bullet point, we took a lot of time to make sure our comparisons page
is objective and fact based.

http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/references/appendices/comparisons/Riak-Compared-to-Couchbase/
is the one for Riak v. Couchbase.

-Jared


On Mon, Oct 22, 2012 at 7:55 AM, Sean Cribbs  wrote:

>
>
> On Mon, Oct 22, 2012 at 9:41 AM, Joshua Muzaaya wrote:
>
>>
>> This is not meant to down-market Riak, but you mentioned Billions of
>> records. Riak storage is known to have a few issues as data grows to
>> billions. However, Couchbase 2.0 has been kinda battle tested, using SQLite
>> at the storage layer.
>
>
> I'm not sure how you are backing up this assertion (citation?). We have
> customers storing terabytes of data with billions of records (using
> LevelDB). SQLite as the storage engine does not necessarily make Couchbase
> more stable or battle-tested, just better known among the wider community.
> On the other hand, we have spent the last eighteen months, in collaboration
> with the original authors at Google, hardening and improving the
> performance of LevelDB to support large deployments, and it now performs
> very well (although we still can do better).
>
> I'm not saying that the OP should not consider Couchbase, but either
> product is going to require more than just a casual knowledge of ops to
> deploy, manage and maintain. Clustered datastores are not for the
> faint-of-heart, so if the OP can do it in a local SQL database, then he
> should.
>
> Sean Cribbs 
> Software Engineer
> Basho Technologies, Inc.
> http://basho.com/
>
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

