---
title: "Re: Achieving 100% consitency"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-08-26T12:49:35-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04480"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04479"
author_name: "Jeremiah Peschka"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-08-26T12:49:35-07:00
---


Since you're specifying DW = 1 and you have a 1 node cluster, the only thing 
that comes to mind is that the Java client is caching data for a short period 
of time. Since I don't use the Java client, I'm not sure if that's actually the 
case, but that's my best guess.
---
Jeremiah Peschka - Founder, Brent Ozar PLF, LLC
Microsoft SQL Server MVP

On Aug 26, 2011, at 12:17 PM, Lukas Schulze wrote:

> I'm doing some simple tests with Riak and tried to build something like an 
> index.
> Therefore I created new buckets for some attributes like "name", "street" and 
> "city".
> One entry in the index-bucket "name" is for example "Mueller" and the value 
> contains all user ids, formatted as an JSON string: "{id:[1,5,8,13,2,7]}"
> The java objects are saved as JSON strings in a separate bucket "users", the 
> keys in this bucket are the user-ids, the values are the JSON strings.
> 
> If I add 200 users via Java and the RiakPBC client every loop I fetch the 
> index, add the new user id and store it again in Riak.
> But java is too fast, so I receive an old version of the bucket.
> 
> Because I've only one node I set the n-value to 1, r = 1, w = 1 and dw = 1.
> But I have to wait nearly 2 seconds to be mostly sure to get the correct 
> response. (the computer isn't an high-end machine ;-) )
> 
> Is it possible to be sure that the data will be saved permanently and I can 
> continue adding users?
> Are there any caching methods I can configure?
> Can I set the default n-value to 1 so that every newly created bucket will 
> have this value?
> Does Riak have any kind of indexes or is it possible to implement it a better 
> way?
> 
> In my first version I saved all users in one bucket and iterated over all of 
> them to find the correct one. But for every single request from the Java 
> Service to Riak it took nearly 200ms. For a huge amount of entries (10,000) 
> this isn't practible. Therefore I tried to implement my own indexes.
> 
> The main focus of my question is getting rid of the inconsistent reads.
> 
> Thank you.
> 
> Best Regards
> Lukas
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

