---
title: "Re: Finding Value greater then anyvalue"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-06-07T06:20:37-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03592"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg03591"
author_name: "Rusty Klophaus"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-06-07T06:20:37-07:00
---


Hi Muhammad,

Riak Search uses Lucene Query syntax. Because Lucene syntax is meant for
text searching, doing a 'greater than' query is somewhat convoluted, but
still possible:

\*riakc\_pb\_socket:search(Client, "player", "score: {500 TO 9999999999]")\*
\*
\*
That tells Riak Search to query the "players" index, looking for documents
with a field of "score" that is from 500 (exclusive) to 99999999
(inclusive). Notice the curly brace on the left vs. the bracket on the
right. A curly brace is for exclusive ranges, a bracket for inclusive
ranges.

Hope that helps,

Best,
Rusty


On Tue, Jun 7, 2011 at 7:08 AM, Muhammad Yousaf wrote:

> Hi,
> I am using Riaksearch with erlang PB client by following "
> https://github.com/basho/riak-erlang-client/" my schema is
>
> {
> schema,
> [
> {version, "1.1"},
> {default\_field, "playername"},
> {default\_op, "or"},
> {n\_val, 3},
> {analyzer\_factory, {erlang, text\_analyzers,
> standard\_analyzer\_factory}}
> ],
> [
> {field, [
> {name, "score"},
> {type, integer},
> {padding\_size, 10},
> {analyzer\_factory, {erlang, text\_analyzers,
> integer\_analyzer\_factory}}
> ]},
> ]
> }.
>
> i am populating my bucket in format like
> Bucket,Key,[{key,value},{key,value},{score,200}]
>
>
> can I find keys greater then value for example 500 by using
>
> riakc\_pb\_socket:search(Client, "player", score > 500)
>
> i tried but with no luck. If yes then how? if not then how can i do that ?
>
> thanks in advance and looking forward for ideas?
>
>
> Regards,
>
> Muhammad Yousaf
>
>
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

