---
title: "Re: NoSQL combinations - what works best?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-08-09T10:03:48-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04294"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04291"
author_name: "Jonathan Langevin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-08-09T10:03:48-07:00
---


So it sounds like your implementation is similar to how someone would
implement a typical cache solution (such as memcache), correct?
But then you have more advanced querying functionality than memcache would
have, so that's a good advantage.
\*


Jonathan Langevin
Systems Administrator
Loom Inc.
Wilmington, NC: (910) 241-0433 - jlange...@loomlearning.com -
www.loomlearning.com - Skype: intel352
\*


On Tue, Aug 9, 2011 at 12:59 PM, Will Moss  wrote:

> We've used Redis for many things, including as a cache in front of S3 and
> Riak. Redis allows you to set it's maximum memory and various eviction
> schemes (including LRU, which works great for a cache). In our application
> code we try to fetch from Redis, if it's missing, we restore from Riak (or
> S3) and then try again.
>
> Will
>
>
> On Tue, Aug 9, 2011 at 9:55 AM, Alexander Sicular wrote:
>
>> Riak had no native ordering capabilities (save search) and has issues with
>> key enumeration.
>>
>> Redis has native dates types that support explicit and implicit ordering
>> as well as set membership, among many other things.
>>
>> In that light, Redis is virtually a perfect complement to Riak.
>> Unfortunately, Redis clustering/sharding is an exercise for the reader.
>>
>> -Alexander
>>
>> Sent from my rotary phone.
>> On Aug 9, 2011 12:42 PM, "Jonathan Langevin" 
>> wrote:
>> > Thanks guys, can you provide more info?
>> >
>> > In what capacity do you use Redis, and what is your data flow process
>> > between your app and Redis, Riak?
>> > Is it distributed as well? If so, do you make use of that distributed
>> > functionality, or do you use a single-server instance of Redis?
>> > \*
>> >
>> > 
>> > Jonathan Langevin
>> > Systems Administrator
>> > Loom Inc.
>> > Wilmington, NC: (910) 241-0433 - jlange...@loomlearning.com -
>> > www.loomlearning.com - Skype: intel352
>> > \*
>> >
>> >
>> > On Tue, Aug 9, 2011 at 12:31 PM, Alexander Sicular > >wrote:
>> >
>> >> I second pairing Riak and Redis.
>> >>
>> >> -Alexander
>> >>
>> >> Sent from my rotary phone.
>> >> On Aug 9, 2011 12:23 PM, "Chad DePue"  wrote:
>> >> > We always use Redis w/ Riak and have had great results.
>> >> >
>> >> > Chad DePue
>> >> > inakanetworks.com - development consulting | skype cdepue |
>> @chaddepue
>> >> > +1 206.866.5707
>> >> >
>> >> >
>> >> >
>> >> > On Tue, Aug 9, 2011 at 1:13 PM, Jonathan Langevin <
>> >> > jlange...@loomlearning.com> wrote:
>> >> >
>> >> >> I'm already a huge fan of Riak after the short time that I've worked
>> >> with
>> >> >> it, but a common concern I've seen is regarding performance.
>> >> >> To continue to take advantage of it's data persistence features,
>> >> powerful
>> >> >> m/r functionality, etc, but to gain performance, I'm thinking of
>> pairing
>> >> my
>> >> >> application with another (throwaway) nosql solution that would exist
>> to
>> >> >> provide greater read performance.
>> >> >>
>> >> >> This inspiration comes from seeing others using MongoDB + MySQL, for
>> >> >> instance. I'm thinking using something such as Memcache, or Membase<
>> >> http://www.couchbase.org/get/couchbase> (though
>> >>
>> >> >> I haven't checked into setup requirements), may be a good option, as
>> I'm
>> >> >> already accustomed to caching with Memcache from PHP, but I've not
>> had
>> >> any
>> >> >> large-scale experience with Memcache yet.
>> >> >> Ideally anything that is lightweight, easy to roll out, and
>> extremely
>> >> fast.
>> >> >>
>> >> >>
>> >> >> Before I venture down this road, are there any comments on this
>> >> approach?
>> >> >> Any suggestions or recommendations?
>> >> >> Or are there speedy solutions available for Riak already?
>> >> >>
>> >> >> 
>> >> >> \* Jonathan Langevin
>> >>
>> >> >> Systems Administrator
>> >> >> Loom Inc.
>> >> >> Wilmington, NC: (910) 241-0433 - jlange...@loomlearning.com -
>> >> >> www.loomlearning.com - Skype: intel352 \*
>> >> >>
>> >> >>
>> >> >> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> >> >> riak-users mailing list
>> >> >> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> >> >> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>> >> >>
>> >> >>
>> >>
>>
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>
>>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

