---
title: "Re: Ripple 0.9.5 breaks old search access"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-06-26T20:12:50-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03836"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg03835"
author_name: "Sylvain Niles"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-06-26T20:12:50-07:00
---


Thanks soooo much for the quick response!

-Sylvain


On Sun, Jun 26, 2011 at 8:08 PM, Sean Cribbs  wrote:
> Sylvain,
> `require 'riak/search'` will solve your issue. It's not uncommon in Ruby to
> reopen classes to add or change functionality, which is what that file does
> -- adding support for the :solr configuration option as well as the other
> features. On git master (which will become 1.0), search support is fully
> merged and not added through reopening the class.
> On Sun, Jun 26, 2011 at 11:01 PM, Sylvain Niles 
> wrote:
>>
>> The example from the wiki for setting up an endpoint doesn't work:
>>
>> client = Riak::Client.new :solr => "/solr"
>> ArgumentError: Invalid configuration options given.
>>        from
>> /Library/Ruby/Gems/1.8/gems/riak-client-0.9.5/lib/riak/client.rb:98:in
>> `initialize'
>>        from (irb):14:in `new'
>>        from (irb):14
>>
>> Looking at the code in the gem I see client.rb has no search
>> functionality at all, nor does map\_reduce.rb. search.rb looks like an
>> alternative version of client.rb with all the search functionality but
>> I don't see how it's used.
>>
>> Additionally all my .search mapreduce inputs no longer work. Is there
>> any documentation on how it has changed in 0.9.5? I didn't see
>> anything in the readme for 0.9.5 talking about this either
>>
>> Thanks
>> Sylvain
>>
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
>
> --
> Sean Cribbs 
> Developer Advocate
> Basho Technologies, Inc.
> http://www.basho.com/
>

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

