---
title: "Re: PDF or OpenOffice Impresse presentations instead of .KEY +	Windows question"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-01-05T17:11:02-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01901"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg01900"
author_name: "Jeremiah Peschka"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-01-05T17:11:02-08:00
---


A short to medium term fix might be to go the route of some other database
vendors and create a linux VM that can be used in VMWare VPlayer. If I had
VMWare, I'd go about doing this, but my VM tools are Mac only...

Jeremiah Peschka
Microsoft SQL Server MVP
MCITP: Database Developer, DBA


On Wed, Jan 5, 2011 at 8:03 PM, OJ Reeves  wrote:

> As someone who has to spend most of their time in Windows at the moment,
> I'd like to just add my view.
>
> For the sake of development and testing, I have found that running a number
> of Riak nodes in a Linux VM on my Windows desktop is as fast, if not faster,
> than talking to other databases (such as SQL Server and MySQL) with native
> installations. The time and effort to set this up is also comparable.
>
> As far as production deployments are concerned I would be happy (if not
> prefer) to fire up Linux servers to run my Riak nodes instead of Windows.
> Partly because of the cost involved, partly for other reasons such as
> overhead.
>
> In short, don't let the lack of Windows support put you off. You can still
> have a great time with Riak even if your main OS is Windows. I've not found
> it to be a barrier at all.
>
> Just my $0.02 :) All the best with your experiments.
>
> OJ
>
>
> On 6 January 2011 10:53, Justin Sheehy  wrote:
>
>> Hello, Jérôme.
>>
>> It looks like Jeremiah has already answered one of your questions, so
>> I'll get the other.
>>
>> On Wed, Jan 5, 2011 at 6:41 PM, Jérôme Verstrynge 
>> wrote:
>>
>> > My other question/remark is: there does not seem to be a downloadable
>> > version of Riak for Windows. Is there a technical reason for this or is
>> it a
>> > 'religious' issue?
>>
>> There's certainly no operating system religion at work here, simply
>> the limited resources of a small team. A few different people in the
>> community have been working on Windows support, which we think is a
>> great idea -- we just currently don't have anyone spare to make
>> official windows releases, QA and benchmark those releases on various
>> windows systems, and so on.
>>
>> -Justin
>>
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>
>
>
>
> --
>
> OJ Reeves
> http://buffered.io/
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

