---
title: "Re: PDF or OpenOffice Impresse presentations instead of .KEY +	Windows question"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-01-07T08:34:47-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01916"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg01913"
author_name: "Timothy Perrett"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-01-07T08:34:47-08:00
---


Hey,

During JavaZone last year I spoke with Kresten about Erjang, and he claimed 
that despite the native code that many Erlang projects use, he was still seeing 
success using it (the details escape me now) and even did a live benchmark of 
it outperforming the BeamVM. Crazy stuff indeed. 

But either-way, my note was more about "isn't this interesting future 
possibility" rather than "it would be better than native"... obviously having 
windows binaries would be awesome and I would actually really like to see that 
happen :-) 

Cheers, Tim



On 7 Jan 2011, at 16:12, Kyle Quest wrote:

> Erjang is a nice and fun toy, but it's too much of a hack to be useful
> for Riak. If you want to use a JVM-based language try Scala and leave
> Erlang as is :-) One of the main problems with porting Riak to other
> platforms is not Erlang itself, but the C/C++ code Riak uses through
> port drivers and NIFs. Using a JVM won't help there...
> 
> 
> On Fri, Jan 7, 2011 at 5:02 AM, Timothy Perrett  
> wrote:
>> Oh interesting :-)
>> 
>> In addition, I heard that Riak had also been made to run on Erjang; if that 
>> were the case you could in theory already run it on windows via the JVM. 
>> Really must find time to try this...
>> 
>> Cheers, Tim
>> 
>> On 7 Jan 2011, at 07:48, Mark Phillips wrote:
>> 
>>> Hey Kyle,
>>> 
>>> On Thu, Jan 6, 2011 at 7:12 AM, Kyle Quest  wrote:
>>>> I have an experimental Riak build for Windows... There's still some
>>>> work that needs to be done though. My goal is to make Riak run on
>>>> Azure, but if others are interested in running Riak on Windows I'll
>>>> share my Windows binaries (once they are ready for public
>>>> consumption). Let me know...
>>>> 
>>>> 
>>> 
>>> Definitely share those binaries once you think they are ready for the
>>> spotlight. There are numerous parties who are interested in building
>>> Riak on Windows and, as Justin pointed out above, Basho's resources
>>> are a bit constrained at the moment, so any help we (and the
>>> community) could get in this respect would be much appreciated.
>>> 
>>> Thanks,
>>> 
>>> Mark
>>> 
>>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>>> riak-users mailing list
>>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>> 
>> 
>> 
> 


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

