---
title: "Re: Logging chat messages"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-10-22T21:01:03-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg09010"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg08993"
author_name: "Shashwat Srivastava"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-10-22T21:01:03-07:00
---


Thank you Guido. Yes, a secondary index based on date would be immensely
helpful for me to navigate via date. I will do this. An incremental message
id would be helpful for me to get last 50 messages and so forth. I will use
another db for this. Thanks for all your help.

Shashwat

On Mon, Oct 22, 2012 at 2:46 PM, Guido Medina wrote:

> Don't overkill it with technology, you could use Riak with a simple 2i
> index (integer index YYYYMMDD for the message date so you can search day by
> day backward), and for the message sequence or identifier you could either
> user ANY SQL database sequence or a UUID generator.
>
> HTH,
>
> Guido.
>
>
> On 22/10/12 10:04, Rapsey wrote:
>
>
> On Mon, Oct 22, 2012 at 10:29 AM, Shashwat Srivastava 
> wrote:
>
>>
>> Now, each bucket would have conversation between two users or of a room
>> of a site. The conversation rate for (some) rooms is very high, some 20,000
>> - 30,000 messages per hour. We have observed that users usually don't
>> access conversations past one week. So, if a bucket has conversation of 3
>> years, then mostly users would access the recent conversation upto a week
>> or month. Can riak handle this easily? Also, would riak use RAM wisely in
>> this scenario? Would it only keep keys and indexes, corresponding to recent
>> messages per bucket, in RAM?
>>
>>
> Leveldb backend should.
>
>
>> Finally, what is the best approach for creating keys in a bucket?
>> Earlier, I was planning to use timestamp (in milliseconds). But in a room
>> there can be multiple messages at the same time. As I understand I cannot
>> have a unique incremental message id per bucket (as riak has write
>> capability in all nodes in a cluster so consistency is not guareented).
>> Please correct me if I am wrong. One other way could be to let riak
>> generate key and I use timestamp as a secondary index. But this seems to be
>> a bad design. Also, what would be the best way to achieve pagination for
>> this use case?
>>
>>
> You could use redis for incremental id's.
>
>
>
> Sergej
>
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing 
> listriak-users@lists.basho.comhttp://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

