---
title: "Re: riak-python-client2, a rewrite of the official client"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-03-15T02:30:30-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06966"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06961"
author_name: "Andrey V. Martyanov"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-03-15T02:30:30-07:00
---


Hi Shuhao,

What is the reason to create a fork? What is your primary goal? Do you have
any particular plans or roadmap? It would be very helpful.

Best regards,
Andrey Mart

On Thu, Mar 15, 2012 at 5:30 AM, Shuhao Wu  wrote:

> That would be most appreciated.
>
> I just completed a very bare minimum higher level API that's similar to
> the current Python client. However, there's still a lot of work to be done.
> Once again, I'm just one lone student working in my spare time and I can't
> possibly think of everything. If we want to bring Python up to speed with
> the rest of the clients, I'll need more people helping me!
>
> Also, I have a general plan of bringing riakkit to riak-python-client2 as
> well.
>
> Shuhao
>
>
> On Mon, Mar 12, 2012 at 12:50 AM, Jim Adler  wrote:
>
>> I'll certainly take a look at your repo and help where I can.
>>
>> Jim
>>
>> Sent from my phone. Please forgive the typos.
>>
>> On Mar 11, 2012, at 11:25 PM, Shuhao Wu  wrote:
>>
>>
>> I'm not too familiar with PBC . I'm looking for individuals to help me as
>> I'm just a student and only working on it in my spare time.
>>
>> Shuhao
>> On Mar 11, 2012 10:43 PM, "Jim Adler"  wrote:
>>
>>> This is great Shuhao!
>>>
>>> I've had problems using the python client using multiple threads with
>>> protocol buffers. The exact same multithreaded code works fine with http
>>> protocol. So, any attention you can give to the pbc transport would be
>>> hugely appreciated.
>>>
>>> Good luck! Can't wait to give your new client a test drive.
>>>
>>> Jim
>>>
>>> Sent from my phone. Please forgive the typos.
>>>
>>> On Mar 11, 2012, at 12:31 PM, Shuhao Wu  wrote:
>>>
>>> Hey guys,
>>>
>>> I've been working with riak and python for the past couple of months,
>>> and I'm at the point where I'm ready to completely reimplement
>>> riak-python-client. So.. I did/started. The project is hosted on github and
>>> under the same apache 2 license as the original client.
>>>
>>> https://github.com/ultimatebuster/riak-python-client2
>>>
>>> Couple of key highlights right now:
>>>
>>> 1. 2 layers of API, a very basic layer (Transports), which handles
>>> communicating with the server, and a high level API, which consists of
>>> Bucket, Object, and so on.
>>> 2. Eliminated things like `set\_` and `get\_`. Made them just variables
>>> where possible
>>>
>>> I'm still taking suggestions for how to reimplement RiakObject (now
>>> called RObject). Any feedback will be appreciated.
>>>
>>> Cheers,
>>>
>>> Shuhao
>>>
>>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>>> riak-users mailing list
>>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>>
>>>
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

