---
title: "Re: Riakaws - AWS Deployment"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-04-22T12:30:48-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00128"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg00127"
author_name: "Matthew Heitzenroder"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-04-22T12:30:48-07:00
---


Interesting.... okay, well innostore wasn't ditching, but i'm making the change 
anyhow. Thanks for your help Sean.

Matt

 
On Apr 22, 2010, at 12:18 PM, Sean Cribbs wrote:

> If your node starts up and innostore doesn't crash, then it worked. Newer 
> versions of innostore will bail early if SMP is not enabled.
> 
> Sean Cribbs 
> Developer Advocate
> Basho Technologies, Inc.
> http://basho.com/
> 
> On Apr 22, 2010, at 1:51 PM, Matthew Heitzenroder wrote:
> 
>> Sean-
>> 
>> Thanks for the feedback.
>> 
>> Regarding -smp enable, I'm going to add that to the vm.args
>> 
>> Is there a way that I can verify my changed worked?
>> 
>> Thanks,
>> Matt
>> 
>> 
>> On Apr 22, 2010, at 6:22 AM, Sean Cribbs wrote:
>> 
>>> Matt,
>>> 
>>> Good work! We have a couple of comments for you:
>>> 
>>> 1) "heart" is probably not the best way to keep your Riak nodes up - it has 
>>> a tendency to restart nodes that fail fatally, and doesn't behave well when 
>>> you want to shut down a node normally. You might be better off with a 
>>> traditional monitoring tool like "monit" which can back off restarts and 
>>> notify you when a node is flapping.
>>> 
>>> 2) Make sure your configuration, either via editing vm.args or via the 
>>> ERL\_FLAGS environment variable, includes "-smp enable". Innostore won't 
>>> work without it.
>>> 
>>> Sean Cribbs 
>>> Developer Advocate
>>> Basho Technologies, Inc.
>>> http://basho.com/
>>> 
>>> On Apr 22, 2010, at 6:46 AM, Matthew Heitzenroder wrote:
>>> 
>>>> Hello riak-users
>>>> 
>>>> If you're an Amazon Web Services user, I'd really appreciate anyone who is 
>>>> willing to review this:
>>>> 
>>>> http://github.com/roder/riakaws
>>>> 
>>>> Riakaws is just a simple way to deploy a Riak cluster in the Amazon cloud. 
>>>> 
>>>> Thanks in advance for an feedback or pull requests.
>>>> 
>>>> Cheers,
>>>> Matt
>>>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>>>> riak-users mailing list
>>>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>>>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>> 
>> 
> 

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

