---
title: "Re: Vote for Distributed Counter"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-10-12T13:51:29-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05144"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg05143"
author_name: "Dmitry Demeshchuk"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-10-12T13:51:29-07:00
---


Statebox ( https://github.com/mochi/statebox/ ) can help with
counters, though they will take a handful of space. There's also a
branch named "counters", but I'm not sure about its status.

Anyway, I totally agree that having native distributed counters would
be super awesome, no matter with using statebox or whatever.

Thumbs up!

On Thu, Oct 13, 2011 at 12:02 AM, Alexander Sicular  wrote:
> Hello Registered Voters!
> It's early stage election season and like all good election seasons you need
> a candidate you can get behind. A candidate you want to have a beer with. A
> candidate that can go all... the... way. And that is why today, I bring you
> Distributed Counter. You may have heard about Distributed Counter around the
> way but I am here to set the record straight.
> I'm not gonna blow smoke in your general direction and say that Distributed
> Counter will cure cancer and put money in your pocket. Nevertheless, if you
> feel better and can take your sweetheart to the movies this weekend I'm not
> gonna say that Distributed Counter was not responsible for that. Because
> Distributed Counter may very well have been! Not only does Distributed
> Counter have the right stuff when it comes to domestic issues large and
> small but Distributed Counter groks foreign relations. Distributed Counter
> is loved by our allies the world over. Especially in Europe. Also, Asia.
> And so, without further ado I give you the opportunity to pull the lever for
> Distributed Counter!
> http://bashofeatures.zendesk.com/entries/20532586-distributed-counters
>
>
> Thanks for your support!
> Payed for by Distributed Counter for Riak Committee 2012
> Distributed Counter says: "I approve this message."
>
>
> Letterman says....
> Top 10 Reasons Why You Want Distributed Counter In Your Riak:
> 10. Bucket Deletion may be your front runner but anyone can loop over a key
> list.
> 9. It is a great feature add for Riak.
> 8. You are OCD and you need to count everything. Twice.
> 7. You have a large jar of jelly beans on your desk and you always wanted to
> know how many were in there. You know this can help you... somehow.
> 6. You know you want to.
> 5. You wrote a background process android pedometer app but you don't trust
> local storage :(
> 4. It is one of the reasons you use Cassandra and would rather not.
> 3. Redis has become a single point of failure for you.
> 2. You think I'm awesome and if I had a bridge to sell you you would buy it.
> 1. Those slackers at Basho have nothing better to do since they unleashed
> secondary index.
>
>
> Cheers,
> Alexander
> @siculars
> http://siculars.posterous.com
>
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>



-- 
Best regards,
Dmitry Demeshchuk

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

