---
title: "Re: Capacity planning page clarification"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-05-18T14:16:32-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03360"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg03322"
author_name: "Mark Phillips"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-05-18T14:16:32-07:00
---


Hey mox,

Thanks for the feedback. Exactly what we were looking for. I just
created a new issue [1] for it on the Riak Wiki repo to make sure we
get this stuff incorporated if it makes sense. As always, pull
requests are encouraged :)

Keep it coming.

Mark

1 - https://github.com/basho/riak\_wiki/issues/98

On Thu, May 12, 2011 at 4:29 PM, Mike Oxford  wrote:
> This may be slightly nit-picky, but this tool marginal at best.
> http://wiki.basho.com/Bitcask-Capacity-Planning.html
> Total number of keys
> Average Bucket Size (bytes)
> Average Key size
> Average Value Size (Bytes)
>
> Some of these are kind of ambiguous, and I'm not sure why this setup was
> chosen...
> 1)  Total number of keys?  Each bucket has N entries comprising N keys + 1
> for the bucket?  (So we need buckets\*(N+1))
> 2)  Average bucket size (bytes)  Why in bytes?  Am I to precalculate the
> stuff to input into the calculator?  Do you mean ((keys\*key\_size) +
> (values\*value\_size))
> 3)  Average Key size (Of the bucket?  Of the kv pairs?  A bucket is just a
> keyed namespace, right?)  I'm guessing you meant "in bytes" like the rest?
> Why not:
> \*  How many buckets will you have?
> \*  How big is each bucket name?
> \*  How many entries will you have in each bucket (average)?
> \*  How big is each value in the entry? (average)
> Everything can then be computed directly from the above with no ambiguity of
> "which keys" or "what are they really looking for."
> The same for the Bitcask calculator.  When you have stuff such as "Average
> Bucket Size (bytes)" (defaulted to 15) but then "Average Value Size (byte)"
> defaulted to 2000 that leads me to:  o\_0
> -mox
>
>
>
>
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

