---
title: "Re: batch adding of keys to LevelDB backend"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-10-11T10:57:16-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05125"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg05124"
author_name: "Jeremiah Peschka"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-10-11T10:57:16-07:00
---


Have you done any tuning of your put options? I've seen significant
improvement by turning off ReturnBody and setting w to a low value.

Jeremiah Peschka
Founder, Brent Ozar PLF
On Oct 11, 2011 8:50 AM, "Nate Lawson"  wrote:

> It's not just for testing. We found that loading/updating keys was somewhat
> slow, even with a low replication count. So we're exploring routes of taking
> a node down in an existing cluster, loading a large batch of keys, and then
> bringing it up. It's ok if it takes the data a while to rebalance after we
> rejoin the node.
>
> It sounds like this isn't as explored as I first thought, so we'll do our
> own analysis.
>
> -Nate
>
> On Oct 10, 2011, at 9:18 AM, Ryan Zezeski wrote:
>
> > Nate,
> >
> > You could do this but if you're just doing it for testing then it seems
> like more work than necessary. If you insist on doing it this way you'll
> want to write it in Erlang so you can make use of the preflist calculation,
> riak\_object, and eleveldb driver.
> >
> > You could do the following:
> >
> > 1. stand up a fresh cluster
> >
> > 2. use one of the clients to load the data
> >
> > 3. archive the data dir on all nodes
> >
> > Next time you want to stand up a cluster with the same data simply
> unarchive the data dirs before starting the cluster.
> >
> > -Ryan
> >
> >
> > On Fri, Oct 7, 2011 at 9:29 PM, Nate Lawson  wrote:
> > We're working on a test where we want to add batches of keys to Riak.
> We're using the LevelDB backend with 1.0. One suggestion we heard was to
> take down a node, batch insert directly into the backing store, and then
> bring the node up again.
> >
> > Could someone give us some more details on this? How would Riak know
> which keys in LevelDB had not yet been redistributed to the rest of the
> cluster?
> >
> > Thanks,
> > Nate
> >
>
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

