---
title: "how does riak scale?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-04-12T10:19:37-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00005"
author_name: "TuX RaceR"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-04-12T10:19:37-07:00

---



Hello Riak users!

Let me first present on a simple example what I can see as an 
application that 'scales':
If a have a web server (e.g apache) serving 100Gb of files and I get 
4000 GET per seconds, one way to scale the application is to copy 
(rsync) the 100Gb to another web server and balance the load on the two 
nodes: that way, globally my cluster of 2 nodes can serve 2 x 4000 GET 
per seconds.
I can say that my architecture scales as if I multiply by 2 the number 
of nodes, then I can multiply by 2 the number of requests that the 
system can handle (per second).


With Riak, I am not sure to understand how the scaling works. Are we 
speaking about a global 'key GET' rate (request per second) that scales 
with the number of nodes added?
My web server example above also assumed that all the data (100Gb) could 
fit into a single node. As I understand Riak could be used to serve data 
too large to fit on one disk. So maybe the scaling is about the data 
itself: a web client (browser) will not see a speed difference in the 
response from a riak cluster serving K keys with N nodes and another 
riak cluster serving 2\*K keys on 2\*N nodes.


Also the number of replicas role in scaling is not clear to me: it seems 
to me that having a lot of replicas speeds up reads but slows down 
writes. Is there a simple scaling law for this?


Thanks in advance,

TuX

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

