---
title: "Re: Structured data"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-08-03T07:15:57-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00831"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg00830"
author_name: "James Sadler"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-08-03T07:15:57-07:00
---


Hi Dmitry,

Being able to represent any Erlang term is a good start.

Which leads me to Riak's conflict resolution. Does this part of Riak
understand the data types or does it just present the N alternative
values for a key to the client when there is a conflict?

There is potential for some semi-automated merging to be done
server-side in the case where values have richer semantics. I suspect
that it would depend on the application, and the client would need to
tell Riak it's OK to perform an automatic merge on write.

On 3 August 2010 23:59, Dmitry Demeshchuk  wrote:
> Hi, James.
>
> Actually, Riak can store all Erlang terms: lists, tuples, numbers,
> binaries, etc.
>
> But if you use, for example, PHP or Python, you can just use your own
> serialization format. So there are no problems here for any other
> languages as well.
>
> On Tue, Aug 3, 2010 at 5:47 PM, James Sadler  wrote:
>> Hi guys,
>>
>> Is there any plan for supporting more than opaque blobs as values in
>> the future?  For example, lists, sets, hashes etc, including
>> server-side support for operating on those data-types?
>>
>> In the meantime, I am curious about the feasibility of putting
>> riak\_core in front of Redis, and supporting a richer API in the layers
>> above (which I suspect would need to be heavily modified to support
>> additional value manipulation functionality).
>>
>> Also, is anyone aware of anyone attempting such a project?
>>
>> Cheers,
>>
>> --
>> James
>>
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>
>
>
>
> --
> Best regards,
> Dmitry Demeshchuk
>



-- 
James

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

