---
title: "Re: riakc_pb_socket client & poolboy"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-09-24T02:20:41-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08660"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg08659"
author_name: "Dmitry Demeshchuk"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-09-24T02:20:41-07:00
---


My main concern about poolboy is the fact that it wraps another gen\_server
process around the actual worker process. This makes you send an extra
message every time you query the database, which is quite an overhead when
you have a lot of concurrent users. Since you guys are fighting for
performance, that could be an issue for you.

At Mochi, we have a client of our own, which is somewhat close to gen\_pool
behaviour I implemented and open-sourced. This client incomplete in many
ways, and uses parametrized modules, which a lot of people tend to dislike,
but it is very fast, stable and production-proven.

Nevertheless, I would really like to hear about Basho's opinion on poolboy
too. Not only they included it into Riak distribution, but they also spent
a handful of effort to test it through and fix a number of quite serious
errors.

On Mon, Sep 24, 2012 at 12:56 PM, Yuri Lukyanov  wrote:

> Hi Dmitry, ;)
>
> Yes, thank you. I'm also thinking about this approach. I just wanted
> to know how people use poolboy for that (It seems they do).
> But even considering your case, imagine that you have quite a big
> cluster and quite a big amount of rps.
> In this case you may want to have more than one load balancer to
> spread the load and be more tolerant to LB failures.
> Exactly the same situation arises.
> It's not a problem to implement a pooler in this case on my own. I'm
> just asking about using poolboy for that.
>
> On Mon, Sep 24, 2012 at 12:08 PM, Dmitry Demeshchuk
>  wrote:
> > Why not use load balancer on top of Riak cluster, independently from
> > clients? If load balancing is sophisticated enough, it can even do a
> greater
> > job than just uniformly spreading requests between machines.
> >
> > Consider the following situation. You happen to send several requests
> for a
> > huge piece of data (each can be just a simple get, or even a complicated
> > map-reduce query), but the rest of the nodes, or just some of them,
> receive
> > much smaller queries.
> >
> > What an external load balancer can do is gathering some basic stats from
> > each machine (like load average, memory and IO consumption, number of
> rps to
> > Riak and so on) and balancing the requests according to this data.
> Another
> > benefit from this approach is that you can easily add any other Riak
> client
> > (Python, Ruby, whatever else) on top of it, and load will be still nicely
> > distributed between the machines.
> >
> > On Mon, Sep 24, 2012 at 11:38 AM, Yuri Lukyanov 
> wrote:
> >>
> >> Hi,
> >>
> >> I'm trying to use poolboy to organize a pool of connections to riak
> >> nodes with protobuf client.
> >>
> >> This has come from the suggestion here:
> >>
> >>
> http://lists.basho.com/pipermail/riak-users\_lists.basho.com/2012-September/009346.html
> >>
> >> The quote:
> >> "Using Poolboy is convenient because it comes as a dependency of
> >> riak\_core.
> >>
> >> If you use Poolboy, you'll have to modify riakc\_pb\_socket slightly to
> >> account for the way poolboy initializes connections (add a
> start\_link/1),
> >> or create a simple module to pass the initialization from poolboy to
> >> riakc\_pb\_socket."
> >>
> >> What I'm pondering about is what would be a convenient way to start
> >> riakc\_pb\_socket clients in a pool.
> >> For example, if I have 10 riak nodes in a cluster and want to open a
> >> single connection to each of them (using riakc\_pb\_socket), I need one
> >> poolboy worker per one riakc\_pb\_socket instance. In this case, I need
> >> a host/port of a single riak node for each
> >> riakc\_pb\_socket:start\_link(). So I use WorkerArgs in
> >> poolboy:start\_link/3 to pass a list of riak nodes. And here comes a
> >> confusion. poolboy passes WorkerArgs to each of its workers, so each
> >> worker gets the list of riak nodes. Now I need to somehow choose a
> >> node, maybe like proposed here:
> >> https://github.com/basho/riak-erlang-client/pull/45/files
> >> But I don't think it's a good solution.
> >>
> >> Maybe my idea of using riakc\_pb\_socket together with poolboy is not
> >> convenient? Maybe I should start a pool per each riak node? Maybe
> >> poolboy is not that convenient in this case as it seems?
> >>
> >> Would you share your experiences and thoughts on the subject?
> >>
> >> Thank you.
> >>
> >> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> >> riak-users mailing list
> >> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> >> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> >
> >
> >
> >
> > --
> > Best regards,
> > Dmitry Demeshchuk
>



-- 
Best regards,
Dmitry Demeshchuk
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

