---
title: "Re: Riak behind a Load Balancer"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-09-09T17:57:52-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08485"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg08477"
author_name: "Matt Black"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-09-09T17:57:52-07:00
---


I'm currently running six Riak nodes on EC2 small instances behind an ELB.
This works fine for us - although when running a large map reduce task we
connect directly to a single node rather than routing through the ELB. I
don't have any actual performance statistics to hand, but I could get some
if the list is interested.

On 9 September 2012 03:25, gibraltar  wrote:

>
> I wonder what happens if one would run a Riak cluster on 5/10/15+ EC2
> micro (or small) Linux machines behind Elastic Load Balance? Do you think
> it would perform well enough for a web site with moderate traffic. Idea is
> having many many "small" machines rather than couple of "big" machines.
>
> Anyone has any experience with something similar?
>
> Thanks,
> Gibraltar
>
> On Aug 30, 2012, at 5:09 PM, Sean Carey  wrote:
>
> Matt,
> Haproxy is my load balancer of choice. You can always run multiple copies
> of haproxy and use some type of dynamic dns with it.
>
> We do this in many cases. Haproxy scales well. I've seen a single node
> sustain multiple gigabits per second with almost no sweat.
>
>
> Thanks.
>
>
> Sean
>
> On Monday, June 25, 2012 at 7:36 AM, Matt Black wrote:
>
> Dear list,
>
> Does anyone have an opinion on the concept of putting a Riak cluster
> behind a load balancer?
>
> We wish to be able to automatically add/remove nodes from the cluster, so
> adding an extra layer at the front is desirable. We should also benefit for
> incoming requests behind shared across all nodes.
>
> Can anyone see any drawbacks / problems with doing this?
>
> Thanks
> Matt
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>


-- 

\*Matt Black\*
Senior Developer

[image: JBA Digital] 

\*JBA Online Consultancy\*

M: +61 (0) 421 073 321
W: www.jbadigital.com
A: Level 1, 2 Darling Street, South Yarra, Melbourne 3141

The information contained in this email is confidential and is intended for
the use of the individual or entity named above. If the receiver of this
message is not the intended recipient, you are hereby notified that any
dissemination, distribution or copy of this email is strictly prohibited.
If you have received this e-mail in error, please notify our office by
telephone. JB/A and their employees do not represent that this transmission
is free from viruses or other defects and you should see it as your
responsibility to check for viruses and defects. JB/A disclaims any
liability to any person for loss or damage resulting (directly or
indirectly) from the receipt of electronic mail (including enclosures).
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

