---
title: "Re: Mac OS X install error"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-06-11T13:48:08-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00572"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg00563"
author_name: "Dan Reverri"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-06-11T13:48:08-07:00
---


Hi Allen,

Can you try temporarily removing the ".erlang" file in your home directory
and testing the build again?

We have not been able to reproduce the error with tsung installed via port.

Thanks,
Dan

Daniel Reverri
Developer Advocate
Basho Technologies, Inc.
d...@basho.com


On Fri, Jun 11, 2010 at 1:26 PM, Allen Kim wrote:

> Dan,
>
> try "sudo port install tsung", it will install all tsung modules into your
> erlang lib directory.
> I think it will reproduce the error.(hope so)
>
> Yes, I have .erlang to use lm(),to load all module updated.
> Here are the contents
>
> ~$cat .erlang
> code:load\_abs("/Users/allen/user\_default").
> ~$
>
> Here is my path to erl.
>
> /opt/local$which erl
> /opt/local/bin/erl
> /opt/local$ls -al /opt/local/bin/er\*
> -rwxr-xr-x 2 root admin 3882 8 Dec 2009 /opt/local/bin/erb
> lrwxr-xr-x 1 root admin 21 4 Jun 18:11 /opt/local/bin/erl ->
> ../lib/erlang/bin/erl
> lrwxr-xr-x 1 root admin 22 4 Jun 18:11 /opt/local/bin/erlc ->
> ../lib/erlang/bin/erlc
>
> erlang directory is not a sym link
> /opt/local/lib$ls -al
> total 460128
> drwxr-xr-x 719 root admin 24446 11 Jun 14:18 .
> drwxr-xr-x 15 root admin 510 4 Jan 14:10 ..
> -rw-r--r-- 1 root admin 0 28 Sep 2009 .turd\_MacPorts
> drwxr-xr-x 4 root admin 136 4 Jan 16:02 ImageMagick-6.5.8
> drwxr-xr-x 3 root admin 102 4 Jun 18:28 X11
> drwxr-xr-x 3 root admin 102 20 Oct 2009 ao
> drwxr-xr-x 14 root admin 476 20 Oct 2009 apr-util-1
> -rw-r--r-- 2 root admin 8367 4 Jun 17:50 apr.exp
> -rw-r--r-- 2 root admin 5165 20 Oct 2009 aprutil.exp
> -rwxr-xr-x 2 root admin 9040 4 Jun 18:16 bindtextdomain.so
> drwxr-xr-x 3 root admin 102 3 Dec 2009 bjam
> drwxr-xr-x 21 root admin 714 4 Jan 14:42 db46
> drwxr-xr-x 3 root admin 102 21 Oct 2009 dbus-1.0
> drwxr-xr-x 12 root admin 408 3 Dec 2009 engines
> drwxr-xr-x 14 root admin 476 4 Jun 18:11 erlang
> ...
>
> Let me know if you need more.
>
> Allen kim
>
>
> On 2010-06-11, at 2:54 PM, Dan Reverri wrote:
>
> Hi Allen,
>
> Is there anything of note about your system that might help us reproduce
> the build error here? Are you using an symlinks in your Erlang libs folder?
> Do you have a ".erlang" file defined in your home directory?
>
> Thanks,
> Dan
>
> Daniel Reverri
> Developer Advocate
> Basho Technologies, Inc.
> d...@basho.com
>
>
> On Fri, Jun 11, 2010 at 11:35 AM, Sean Cribbs  wrote:
>
>> Allen,
>>
>> The best answer we've come up with internally is that reltool (what's used
>> internally to rebar for part of the build process) tends to follow certain
>> symlinks blindly. If it's not critical for you to stay on Riak tip, you
>> should be able to use the binary packages without a hitch.
>>
>> Sean Cribbs 
>> Developer Advocate
>> Basho Technologies, Inc.
>> http://basho.com/
>>
>> On Jun 11, 2010, at 2:29 PM, Allen Kim wrote:
>>
>> I removed tsung
>> $>sudo port uninstall tsung
>> $>sudo port clean tsung
>>
>> then, ran "make rel" command, it WORKS
>>
>> ...
>> Compiled src/riak\_kv\_wm\_stats.erl
>> Compiled src/riak\_kv\_wm\_link\_walker.erl
>> Compiled src/riak\_object.erl
>> Compiled src/riak\_kv\_wm\_raw.erl
>> WARNING: 'generate' command does not apply to directory
>> /Users/allen/riak-0.11.0/apps/riak\_kv
>> ==> rel (compile)
>> ==> rel (generate)
>> ==> riak-0.11.0 (compile)
>> WARNING: 'generate' command does not apply to directory
>> /Users/allen/riak-0.11.0
>> ~/riak-0.11.0$
>>
>> However when I installed tsung(which installs tsung, tsung\_recorder, and
>> tsung\_controller) again, a part of erlang, it does not work(the same error)
>>
>> I personally use tsung for load testing and riak will be the perfect
>> example of it, and I will need to install tsung later.
>>
>> I will not use tsung for a while until you fix it, and please let me know
>> when it is fixed.
>>
>> Thanks for your hard work
>>
>> Allen Kim
>>
>> On 2010-06-11, at 1:40 PM, Dan Reverri wrote:
>>
>> Hi Allen,
>>
>> When generating a release package with rebar the intention is to create a
>> fully independent release package that runs without any external
>> dependencies. During the release generation rebar will analyze the
>> specification of an application to determine dependencies. The tool will
>> then collect all the dependencies (including those from the system level
>> Erlang installation) and package them into a release. Tsung is not part of
>> the riak dependency specification and should not be pulled into the release.
>> My guess is that macports has configured Erlang in such a way that the Tsung
>> library is included in all releases. We have to look into this a bit further
>> and try to reproduce the issue locally.
>>
>> Thanks,
>> Dan
>>
>> Daniel Reverri
>> Developer Advocate
>> Basho Technologies, Inc.
>> d...@basho.com
>>
>>
>> On Fri, Jun 11, 2010 at 10:11 AM, Allen Kim <
>> allen....@epicadvertising.com> wrote:
>>
>>> If it helps, ts\_client\_proxy.beam file is not in tsung-1.3.1 folder but
>>> in tsung\_recorder-1.3.1, Don't know how to fix it though
>>>
>>> /opt/local/lib/erlang/lib/tsung\_recorder-1.3.1/ebin$ls
>>> ts\_client\_proxy.beam ts\_client\_proxy\_sup.beam ts\_proxy\_http.beam
>>> ts\_proxy\_listener.beam ts\_proxy\_pgsql.beam ts\_proxy\_recorder.beam
>>> ts\_proxy\_webdav.beam ts\_recorder\_sup.beam tsung\_recorder.app
>>> tsung\_recorder.beam
>>>
>>> Allen Kim
>>>
>>> ==> rel (generate)
>>> ERROR: Failed to generate target from spec: "copy file
>>> /opt/local/lib/erlang/lib/tsung-1.3.1/ebin/ts\_client\_proxy.beam ->
>>> /Users/allen/riak-0.11.0/rel/riak/lib/tsung-1.3.1/ebin/ts\_client\_proxy.beam:
>>> no such file or directory\n"
>>>
>>> On 2010-06-11, at 12:31 PM, Allen Kim wrote:
>>>
>>> information of erlang installed if helps
>>>
>>> /opt/local/lib/erlang/bin$port installed erlang
>>> The following ports are currently installed:
>>> erlang @R13B02\_2+darwin\_10
>>> erlang @R13B02\_3+darwin\_10
>>> erlang @R13B03\_0+darwin\_10
>>> erlang @R13B04\_0+darwin\_10 (active)
>>>
>>> On 2010-06-11, at 12:20 PM, Dan Reverri wrote:
>>>
>>> Hi Allen,
>>>
>>> Sorry for not being more clear. You have to run the generate command
>>> against a compiled folder.
>>> make all
>>> ./rebar -v generate
>>>
>>> Thanks,
>>> Dan
>>>
>>> Daniel Reverri 
>>> Developer Advocate
>>> Basho Technologies, Inc.
>>> http://basho.com/
>>>
>>>
>>>
>>>
>>
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>
>>
>>
>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

