---
title: "weakest link"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-02-24T05:36:18-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06727"
author_name: "gibraltar"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-02-24T05:36:18-08:00

---


Hello,

I'm founder of a very small startup (a.k.a one man show). Although I did roll 
out a lot of critical piece of software to production environment before, I was 
never responsible of the database or systems that it depended on. Now, I'm 
responsible of those layers as well. Unlike many in this user list I do not 
have any scaleability problem, nor huge data to deal with, at least yet, and 
hopefully one day very soon. (It will have social aspect as well, but later). 
However easy horizontal replication allows me to deploy couple of Riak servers 
on a hosting site (to an environment I have no control at all) so that I will 
have (relatively) peace of mind if I lose one of the servers somehow. I am 
trying to relieve myself from admin work as much as I if I can set up 
environment with correct choice of data storage. This is the reason I have been 
considering riak seriously, since my admin experience with any traditional 
databases are limited I am at the same distance to SQL or NoSQL. I already 
developed my solution to almost completion with Riak but now having doubts.

1) What should be the bare minimum number of Riak server to have that security. 
(Sky is the limit for redundancy but I will limit myself only to one site, 
multiple servers for now).

2) Would anyone in the list recommend setting up Mysql or Postgresql instead a 
NoSQL given current small size of my venture. Am I optimizing prematurely. 
Again I am looking for security, ease of administration, and a future proof 
architecture. I am losing a lot (SQL) but it's ok. I do need transactions here 
and there but I mitigated it storing all in one object for atomicity.

3) I read that people in this list mostly store secondary/derivative data or 
data that they can load again. Is Riak mature enough to store critical/primary 
data? A chain is as strong as its weakest link. So in Riak's case what is that 
weakest link? Backend storage choice? bitcask? leveldb? or riak-js? (I need 2i 
so my only option is leveldb.) Is Riak (NoSQL in general) for storing (lots of) 
secondary data and processing it? I will be storing data for other institutions 
whose customers will generate. Although it does not involve money it does mean 
monetary transaction.

4) I tried writing 500K objects to both Postgresql and Riak. I used 
nodejs/riak-js(http). My experience is that a) Postgresql is storing faster 
than Riak b) Riak interface sometimes reporting EADDRINUSE(see below) and some 
other errors randomly. Postgresql test did not generate even one error. This 
blemished my sense of security towards Riak a bit but it could be library stack 
I used. I wonder if this experience unique to me, or are there anyone else who 
had similar experience in the list? (This could also be due to node.js, so I am 
not sure where exactly to put the blame).

{ [Error: connect EADDRINUSE] code: 'EADDRINUSE', errno: 'EADDRINUSE', syscall: 
'connect' }

In brief, I am trying to understand where Riak will likely fail me in 
production, if it does.

Sorry for the long post/questions and I appreciate if I could pick your mind.

Thanks,
Gibraltar

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

