---
title: "Re: RiakSearch 14.0 All Gets/Puts Timing out on a single node system."
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-03-16T10:50:31-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg02665"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg02664"
author_name: "Dan Reverri"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-03-16T10:50:31-07:00
---


You shouldn't need to recompile to make configuration changes. The
"rel/riaksearch/etc/app.config" file should be referenced by Riak Search
whenever the node is started.

When compiling a release the default values used for
"rel/riaksearch/etc/app.config" are defined by "rel/vars.config".

Thanks,
Dan

Daniel Reverri
Developer Advocate
Basho Technologies, Inc.
d...@basho.com


On Wed, Mar 16, 2011 at 10:40 AM, J T  wrote:

> Unfortunately not, the log files are suspiciously quiet .. but I'm
> reasonably certain that I'm looking in the right place.
>
> However, I think I fixed the problem.
>
> After doing a \*make rel\* I went in and modified the etc config to have
> riak use an external ip address and I think its that that caused the
> problem.
>
> Instead I needed to make the change to \*rel/vars.config\* and then redo the
> \*make rel\* leading me to suspect that the values are actually compiled in
> somewhere and not just read from a config file on startup.
>
>
> On Wed, Mar 16, 2011 at 4:41 PM, Dan Reverri  wrote:
>
>> Hi JT,
>>
>> Are there any error messages in your Riak Search log files?
>>
>> Thanks,
>> Dan
>>
>> Daniel Reverri
>> Developer Advocate
>> Basho Technologies, Inc.
>> d...@basho.com
>>
>>
>> On Tue, Mar 15, 2011 at 5:13 PM, J T  wrote:
>>
>>> Hi,
>>>
>>> I was running an older version of riak (v12) for a while and recently
>>> upgraded to riak\_search (v14).
>>>
>>> I can connect to the node, I can ping it. But any put or get results in a
>>> timeout.
>>>
>>> There is a difference in deployment, previously I was running it on the
>>> same host as the client and accessing directly using the erlang client api
>>> (not pb).
>>> Now, I moved the node on a separate machine and can connect to it both
>>> from the original host and also locally on the same host.
>>>
>>> Following the instructions in README.txt to test, results in a pong from
>>> the ping but timeouts (after a long delay).
>>>
>>> I'm a bit stumped. Any tips ?
>>>
>>> JT.
>>>
>>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>>> riak-users mailing list
>>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>>
>>>
>>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

