---
title: "Re: The Right erlang client?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-01-27T15:08:13-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06447"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06446"
author_name: "Alin Popa"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-01-27T15:08:13-08:00
---


Hi Jeremey,

Sorry, I'm not one of the 'Basho folks', like you named them :), but I
would say that Erlang client (riak\_object) is the one used only for
internal purposes, as opposed to Erlang Pb Client, which is the one that
should you use when you're building your erlang applications.

Nevertheless, as 'basho falks' suggests it: "The local Erlang client is a
tightly-integrated part of Riak and the Riak HTTP and Protocol Buffers
interfaces use the Erlang client internally. The primary client for code
that is not inside of Riak is the Protocol Buffers client:

 - riak-erlang-client on GitHub
 "

HTH,
Alin

On Sat, Jan 28, 2012 at 12:18 AM, Jeremey Barrett
wrote:

> All, and especially Basho folks, what is the Right client to use from
> Erlang? I've been using the PB client, but dealing with the strange
> difference between riakc\_obj and riak\_object is making me question that
> choice. Is there a better answer?
>
> If not, is there a recommended practice for dealing with the results of
> map\_identity in clients using PB?
>
> It seems like the distributed erlang client isn't really intended to be
> used as a "client library," given that it's buried inside riak\_kv.
>
> Any advice would be welcome, I don't really see a lot of documentation on
> best practices.
>
> Regards,
> Jeremey.
>
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

