---
title: "Re: Riak scenarios"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-08-04T08:36:04-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04222"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04216"
author_name: "Jeremiah Peschka"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-08-04T08:36:04-07:00
---


When I asked phark for such a document, he said:

So, here is what we generally caution \*against\* using Riak for:

1) It's not a graph database
2) Time Series apps (it's doable but not optimal)
2) Stuff that is analytics-heavy or requires a lot of adhoc queries.

It'd be nice to see examples of how other people are using Riak to build out 
their environment.

---
Jeremiah Peschka
Founder, Brent Ozar PLF, LLC

On Aug 4, 2011, at 7:33 AM, Jonathan Langevin wrote:

> It would be great to see Riak configuration & use scenarios, available online 
> (not just buried in the list somewhere).
> 
> One such scenario that I'd be interested in seeing, is a setup where you have 
> a Riak cluster with a specific node that is used for all reads/writes of an 
> application.
> The idea is to ensure that the data is always online (via cluster), but also 
> ensure that you always have the latest version of your data (specific single 
> node read/write).
> If this primary node goes down, then just switch the application to a new 
> primary node. That could occur via application logic or other solution that 
> exists between application and riak cluster.
> 
> To represent such a scenario as I've requested, someone would post their 
> suggested/recommended Riak config, client read config, client write config, 
> and any other relevant information, especially pros/cons and if they have in 
> fact used this configuration before (with[out] success).
> 
> 
> It would be good to have a scenario wishlist, where someone lists what they 
> would like to see a usable configuration, which others can respond to with 
> their configuration / use case.
> 
> 
> If Basho/Riak were interested in providing such a function to the community, 
> maybe to make this available sooner than later, it could be implemented via 
> the Wiki, with some basic guidelines?
> 
> This idea wouldn't need to exist exactly as I've presented it, just something 
> that achieves a similar goal would be quite useful.
> 
> 
> Jonathan Langevin
> Systems Administrator
> Loom Inc.
> Wilmington, NC: (910) 241-0433 - jlange...@loomlearning.com - 
> www.loomlearning.com - Skype: intel352
> 
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

