---
title: "Problems with bitcask, file merge errors, too many 0 byte files"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-05-29T17:55:00-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07570"
author_name: "Jacob Chapel"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-05-29T17:55:00-07:00

---


Our Riak server which is running 1.0.2 at the moment using bitcask backend
and search is crashing often and when restarted will crash again
immediately due to system\_limit error.

2012-05-29 19:28:54.808 [error] <0.1001.0>@riak\_kv\_vnode:init:245 Failed to
start riak\_kv\_bitcask\_backend Reason:
{{badmatch,{error,system\_limit}},[{bitcask,scan\_key\_files,3},{bitcask,init\_keydir,2},{bitcask,open,2},{riak\_kv\_bitcask\_backend,start,2},{riak\_kv\_vnode,init,1},{riak\_core\_vnode,init,1},{gen\_fsm,init\_it,6},{proc\_lib,init\_p\_do\_apply,3}]}

Before, we were getting emfile errors, so we upped the ulimit for open
files which helped. Soon after (about a week) it crashed again but due to
the above error. After looking into it and asking on IRC, there wasn't much
information but looked to be due to a ton of 0 (zero) byte files in the
bitcask folder. In fact when counting, at first there were over 20k 0 byte
files. Someone who had similar issues was instructed to delete them, and
common sense says that 0 byte files don't hold any data. So I backed them
up (just in case) and removed them from the bitcask folder. That allowed
the server to startup and run again.

Fast forward a few days to now, it appears to have crashed due to the same
issue. Having over 20k new 0 byte files. I asked on IRC again but not much
could be helped since they didn't know. I backed up and removed the files
again and it runs. How can I prevent these files?

Also, as this sample log output shows:
https://gist.github.com/a2e3c473e1d582bd87a2

We are getting a lot of file merge errors and child processes dying
randomly (not sure how to read the error).

I am not really sure where to go from here, we can't keep removing 0 byte
files to keep the server up, and I am sure there is some setting or
configuration problem that just isn't apparent. Help would be very much
appreciated.

Jacob Chapel
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

