---
title: "Re: Problem with deleting keys"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-06-16T10:07:57-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03719"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg03716"
author_name: "David Leimbach"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-06-16T10:07:57-07:00
---


On Thu, Jun 16, 2011 at 9:49 AM, Les Mikesell  wrote:

> On 6/16/2011 10:22 AM, Nico Meyer wrote:
>
>>
>>
>
>
> Btw, this whole issue is not really Riak specific. It is essentially a
>> consequence of eventual consistency, where you have to make a trade off
>> between the amount of bookkeeping information you want to store and the
>> maximum amount of time (or number of updates) any part of the system can
>> diverge from the rest of the system before you get undesired results.
>>
>
> The 'eventual consistency' description makes you think the system will
> eventually fix itself, though. But, won't you have a similar scenario - and
> even more difficult to fix - where for one reason or another you need to
> restore a backed up bitcask file that contains items deleted after the time
> the backup was done?
>

Consistency doesn't have to be "correct". It absolutely is consistent for a
deleted key on one node in a replica, to replicate itself even if it was
purposefully deleted from the other N-1 nodes.

It just means something is consistent. Raising awareness to the issues of
key deletes and how they might be restored in the system is very important
for a designer of applications for eventually consistent systems.

Dave


>
> --
> Les Mikesell
> lesmikes...@gmail.com
>
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

