---
title: "Re: Re: Riak performance problems when LevelDB database grows beyond	16GB"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-10-12T07:31:11-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08894"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg08893"
author_name: "Evan Vigil-McClanahan"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-10-12T07:31:11-07:00
---


Hi there, Jan,

The lsof issue is that max\_open\_files is per backend, iirc, so if
you're maxed out you'll see vnode count \* max\_open\_files.

I think on the second try, you may have set the cache too high. I'd
drop it back to 8 or 16 MB, and possibly up the open files a bit more,
but you don't seem to be running into contention at this point.
There's a RAM cost, so maybe just leave it where it is for now, unless
you have quite a lot of memory.

Another thing to check is that vm.swappiness is set to 0 and that your
disk scheduler is set to deadline for spinning disks and noop for
SSDs.

On Fri, Oct 12, 2012 at 5:02 AM,  wrote:
>> Can you attach the eleveldb portion of your app.config file?
>> Configuration problems, especially max\_open\_files being too low, can
>> often cause issues like this.
>>
>> If it isn't sensitive, the whole app.config and vm.args files are also
>> often helpful.
>
> Hello Evan,
>
> thanks for responding.
>
> I originally had default LevelDB settings. When the node stalled, I changed it
> to
>
> {eleveldb, [
> {data\_root, "/home/riak/leveldb"},
> {max\_open\_files, 132},
> {cache\_size, 377487360}
> ]},
>
> on all nodes and I restarted them all. The application started to run with
> about 1000 requests/second, after about 1 minute it dropped to <500
> requests/second, and the node stalled again after 41 minutes. BTW according to
> lsof(1) it had 267 open LevelDB files which is more than the 132 files limit
> (??).

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

