---
title: "Re: Achieving 100% consitency"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-08-27T02:33:37-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04488"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04483"
author_name: "Jonathan Langevin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-08-27T02:33:37-07:00
---


Even for development-purposes only? Otherwise it seems data would be written
n times to the same machine, which is needless in a dev environment with low
storage specs...\*


Jonathan Langevin
Systems Administrator
Loom Inc.
Wilmington, NC: (910) 241-0433 - jlange...@loomlearning.com -
www.loomlearning.com - Skype: intel352
\*


On Fri, Aug 26, 2011 at 5:01 PM, Ian Plosker  wrote:

> Lukas,
>
> Also, we don't advise that you run single node clusters. Riak is designed
> to be used in clusters of at least 3 nodes. You can run a multi-node cluster
> on a single development machine by downloading the Riak source, and running
> "make devrel". Take a look at the Riak Fast Track (
> http://wiki.basho.com/The-Riak-Fast-Track.html) for more details.
>
> Ian Plosker
> Developer Advocate
> Basho Technologies
>
> On Aug 26, 2011, at 3:17 PM, Lukas Schulze wrote:
>
> I'm doing some simple tests with Riak and tried to build something like an
> index.
> Therefore I created new buckets for some attributes like "name", "street"
> and "city".
> One entry in the index-bucket "name" is for example "Mueller" and the value
> contains all user ids, formatted as an JSON string: "{id:[1,5,8,13,2,7]}"
> The java objects are saved as JSON strings in a separate bucket "users",
> the keys in this bucket are the user-ids, the values are the JSON strings.
>
> If I add 200 users via Java and the RiakPBC client every loop I fetch the
> index, add the new user id and store it again in Riak.
> But java is too fast, so I receive an old version of the bucket.
>
> Because I've only one node I set the n-value to 1, r = 1, w = 1 and dw = 1.
> But I have to wait nearly 2 seconds to be mostly sure to get the correct
> response. (the computer isn't an high-end machine ;-) )
>
> Is it possible to be sure that the data will be saved permanently and I can
> continue adding users?
> Are there any caching methods I can configure?
> Can I set the default n-value to 1 so that every newly created bucket will
> have this value?
> Does Riak have any kind of indexes or is it possible to implement it a
> better way?
>
> In my first version I saved all users in one bucket and iterated over all
> of them to find the correct one. But for every single request from the Java
> Service to Riak it took nearly 200ms. For a huge amount of entries (10,000)
> this isn't practible. Therefore I tried to implement my own indexes.
>
> The main focus of my question is getting rid of the inconsistent reads.
>
> Thank you.
>
> Best Regards
> Lukas
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

