---
title: "Re: More on Map/Reduce, Riak, and Grails Gorm, spring-data support"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-12-01T09:32:35-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01686"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg01684"
author_name: "Jon Brisbin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-12-01T09:32:35-08:00
---



On Dec 1, 2010, at 10:08 AM, Kevin Smith wrote:

> There is a cache between the MapReduce machinery and the Javascript VMs to 
> reduce demand on the VMs. It is a two-level cache based on the bucket/key 
> pair being accessed and the hash of the Javascript function name or source 
> being invoked. Changing either the function or writing to the bucket/key pair 
> should cause the cache to eject entries. 
> 
> If you want to disable the cache, you can do so by adding the following lines 
> to the riak\_kv section of your app.config:
> 
> {vnode\_cache\_entries, 0}

This did make a difference. I suspected this was the case, so I added some code 
to make the Javascript I was submitting always unique. I took that back out and 
put this setting in place.

> I will dig into the caching code and see if there's an issue with stale 
> entries not getting ejected.

I can't say for certain, but it seems to be that the M/R gets an incomplete 
list of keys to use because they are queried first. While the M/R is being run, 
though, entries are added to that bucket. These are obviously not picked up by 
the running M/R code because the list of keys has already been obtained.

Of course that's just a guess because I don't know the specifics of how it 
works internally. :)

> What are you using for W or DW on your write calls? With W/DW < N the call 
> can return while the data is still being replicated.

I was using the defaults.

What I'm trying now is to set the n\_val, w, etc... properties when I start the 
tests.

If I'm running a single test server, what should I set and to what value? Just 
w=1 or does r need to be set too?

I basically want to make sure that every write is "flushed" before returning. I 
don't want to add this to the underlying code, because I want to take advantage 
of any caching and what-not. I just want to make sure that things are flushed 
and solid while running the test suite. If it takes twice as long, I don't 
care. I just want the tests to pass. ;)

jb


> 
> --Kevin
> 
>> 
>> Thanks for all the help so far! :)
>> 
>> Jon Brisbin
>> Portal Webmaster
>> NPC International, Inc.
>> 
>> 
>> 
>> 
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> 


Jon Brisbin
Portal Webmaster
NPC International, Inc.




\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

