---
title: "Re: riak install error: R15B does not match required regex R13B04|R14"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-02-24T14:50:39-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06732"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06731"
author_name: "Jared Morrow"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-02-24T14:50:39-08:00
---


Mohamed,

If you are using our packages provided, it packages Erlang r14b04 with Riak. 
Those packages will install straight away with erlang included. You look like 
you are trying to build from the source tarball versus installing a package. 
One thing to note, we haven't tested Riak with R15 formally. If you still 
really want to use R15, you'll have to change all rebar.config's in the build 
dependencies not just the top-level Riak repository. Once you fetch your 
dependencies, search for every rebar.config file and make the change in each 
file you find.

If you are using this in production, I would recommend you stick with Erlang 
14B04 for this release as it was the tested version.

-Jared


On Feb 24, 2012, at 2:58 PM, Chenini, Mohamed wrote:

> Hi,
> 
> I am trying to install riak riak-1.1.0, but I am getting a rebar error.
> 
> ERROR: OTP release R15B does not match required regex R13B04|R14
> make: \*\*\* [compile] Error 1
> And though I added R15 like this {require\_otp\_vsn, "R14B0[234]|R15"}.
> 
> I am still seeing the same error :
> ERROR: OTP release R15B does not match required regex R13B04|R14
> 
> It’s like the update did not take effect.
> 
> Any idea how I can fix this issue?
> 
> Thanks,
> Mohamed
> ====================
> This email/fax message is for the sole use of the intended
> recipient(s) and may contain confidential and privileged information.
> Any unauthorized review, use, disclosure or distribution of this
> email/fax is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient, please
> destroy all paper and electronic copies of the original message.
> 
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

