---
title: "Re: Cannot Install Riak"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-06-21T13:12:39-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07741"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg07740"
author_name: "Jared Morrow"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-06-21T13:12:39-07:00
---


x2, I'd like to know what was the cause of your problem so we could make sure 
it isn't a problem for other people.

In the future, if you want to play with a development cluster on a single 
machine, you can clone from github and do a `make devrel` which will create 
four nodes in their own directories under the `dev` directory.

Sorry for your troubles earlier, but I'm glad you found a solution.

-Jared


On Jun 21, 2012, at 12:50 PM, Clinton Shryock  wrote:

> Can you detail or post any links to your solution? Someone may come across 
> this thread in the future with a similar problem.
> 
> +Clint
> 
> On Jun 21, 2012, at 1:28 PM, Nick Tune wrote:
> 
>> Hahah would you believe it!!!
>> 
>> I just did a bit of googling to fix that problem and it worked.
>> 
>> I got 4 nodes running on my home machine really easy.
>> 
>> Finally I can wind-down for the day. 
>> 
>> Thanks guys
>> 
>> On Thu, Jun 21, 2012 at 7:13 PM, Nick Tune  wrote:
>> Ok it is definitely one of those days. I've come home and tried to install 
>> on my home pc. And now I get this error:
>> 
>> Compiled src/etop\_txt.erl
>> ==> rel (generate)
>> ERROR: Unable to generate spec: read file info 
>> /usr/lib/erlang/man/man1/precat.1 failed
>> make: \*\*\* [rel] Error 1
>> 
>> Thanks for all your help. I think I'll just come back to riak another day 
>> once my mind is cleared of this disaster.
>> 
>> 
>> On Thu, Jun 21, 2012 at 6:27 PM, Swinney, Austin  wrote:
>> Hey Nick,
>> 
>> Not solving your problem, but I known the 
>> excited-why-wont-this-work-right-now sentiment. I had a riak cluster up and 
>> running in very little time using Centos 5.6 and the rpm's from basho 
>> (riak-1.1.1-1.el5.x86\_64.rpm). No errors, and as I recall, no requirements. 
>> Adding addition nodes is no time at all. But then, my stuff is on ec2 
>> using:
>> 
>> RightImage\_CentOS\_5.6\_x64\_v5.6.35 (ami-991adcf0)
>> 
>> Best of luck,
>> 
>> Austin
>> 
>> On Jun 21, 2012, at 12:55 PM, Nick Tune wrote:
>> 
>>> Now I've got an ubuntu VM and I'm getting this error:
>>> 
>>> Command 'generate' not understood or not applicable
>>> 
>>> 
>>> On Thu, Jun 21, 2012 at 5:48 PM, Nick Tune  wrote:
>>> 
>>> 
>>> ---------- Forwarded message ----------
>>> From: Nick Tune 
>>> Date: Thu, Jun 21, 2012 at 5:25 PM
>>> Subject: Re: Cannot Install Riak
>>> To: Bogunov 
>>> 
>>> 
>>> Hello,
>>> 
>>> Thanks for the help. I made some progress and I got it working using the 
>>> 1.1.2 build.
>>> 
>>> But I wanted to try multiple nodes on local machine which requires a build 
>>> from source. Now I'm getting more issues.
>>> 
>>> Please see here: 
>>> http://stackoverflow.com/questions/11139149/escript-riak-1-1-2-rel-riak-erts-5-8-5-bin-nodetool
>>> 
>>> Thanks for your time. Sorry if I sound moody. This just annoyed me because 
>>> I was so excited to play with riak and erlang. ah well - such is life.
>>> 
>>> 
>>> On Thu, Jun 21, 2012 at 5:23 PM, Bogunov  wrote:
>>> Its possible what you don`t have one of required libraries, it seems you 
>>> are missing something from protobuf requirements, try building from scratch 
>>> manually.
>>> just cd to protobuff dir and ./configure and make.
>>> 21.06.2012 19:30 пользователь "Nick Tune"  написал:
>>> 
>>> 
>>>> 
>>>> After pulling down riak from get, I get the following error when running 
>>>> make rel:
>>>> 
>>>> ./rebar compile generate
>>>> ==> cluster\_info (compile)
>>>> ==> lager (compile)
>>>> ==> poolboy (compile)
>>>> ==> protobuffs (compile)
>>>> make: \*\*\* [rel] Error 1
>>>> 
>>>> 
>>>> I've had an awful experience getting riak setup. I've wasted two hours 
>>>> messing around and it still doesn't work. Please improve the experience 
>>>> for other users. 
>>>> 
>>>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>>>> riak-users mailing list
>>>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>>>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>>> 
>>> 
>>> 
>>> 
>>> 
>>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>>> riak-users mailing list
>>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>> 
>> 
>> 
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> 
> 
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

