---
title: "Riak Recap for May 18 - 19"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-05-20T15:18:00-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03374"
author_name: "Mark Phillips"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-05-20T15:18:00-07:00

---


Afternoon, Evening, Morning to All -

For today's Recap: some great content from #riak, an upcoming Riak
talk in Chicago and more.

Enjoy and have a great weekend.

Mark

Community Manager
Basho Technologies
wiki.basho.com
twitter.com/pharkmillups
------------------------------------

Riak Recap for May 18 - 19
=====================

1) We merged a great contribution into Riak Search from gpascale et al.

\* Details are in this commit here --->
https://github.com/basho/riak\_search/pull/56

Thanks! Keep the code coming.

2) Q --- Before I go an write one from scratch, I figured I should
ask: Does anyone have a script/Erlang snippet for discarding and
completely rebuilding a Riak Search index? (from joell via #riak)

Anyone have anything to share? I would love to get something like this
in contrib.basho.com if it exists...

3) dambalah, aphyr and Vaganond had a quick chat in #riak that started
with, "Is riak susceptible to some kind of 'injection attack'?
If so, what's an example and what do application developers need to
do to prevent these?"

Read here ---> https://gist.github.com/983702

4) Q --- Lets say I have several new nodes to add, is the recommended
procedure to add them one at a time and wait for all transfers to
finish, or can you actually add several?

A --- The current recommended procedure is to add one node at a time
and wait for the partition transfers to finish before proceeding to
the next node addition. Specifically:

\* Use the "riak-admin join" command to kick off the cluster expansion
\* Run "riak-admin transfers" periodically to keep an eye on the nodes
awaiting or passing off partitions (this may take a bit to complete);
an alternate (and less expensive) way to keep an eye on on this is to
just watch the logs.
\* When "riak-admin ringready" prints "TRUE ..." to let you know that
all nodes agree on the ring state, you're good to go.

See http://wiki.basho.com/Command-Line-Tools.html for all the command
line tools.

(It's worth nothing that making this process smoother and more fluid
is high on our list of priorities.)

5) It looks like Susan Potter (@susanpotter) will be giving a talk
about Riak and Link Walking at the WindyCityDB in Chicago at the end
of June.

\* Details here ---> http://windycitydb.org/sessions/#potter

Anyone else planning to be at this event?

6) Version 0.1501 of Linkfluence's Perl Client was just released.

\* Details here ---> https://twitter.com/#!/cpan\_new/status/71176812394328064

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

