---
title: "Re: external http calls from map functions?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-04-16T06:06:46-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00056"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg00054"
author_name: "Kevin Smith"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-04-16T06:06:46-07:00
---


The only restrictions on map/reduce functions are a) they must return lists and 
b) the entire job must execute before the timeout period elapses (60 seconds is 
the default). Javascript functions have the additional restriction of not 
being able to call back into Erlang code due to the current state of 
Erlang/Javascript integration.

The easiest way to do this would be to write your function in Erlang and use 
either httpc (packaged with Erlang) or ibrowse 
(http://github.com/cmullaparthi/ibrowse) to make the HTTP calls. If you're 
comfortable with Erlang & OTP I'd recommend making a separate OTP application 
to handle the HTTP calls and provide an API for your map/reduce functions to 
use This design moves the HTTP calls out of the query flow and prevents a 
hanging HTTP call from timing out a query.

--Kevin
On Apr 15, 2010, at 11:20 PM, Colin Surprenant wrote:

> I'll rephrase my question:
> 
> Is it possible to call external http services from a map function in
> JavaScript and/or Erlang? Any comments/pointers appreciated.
> 
> Thanks,
> Colin
> 
> On Thu, Apr 15, 2010 at 12:44 PM, Colin Surprenant  
> wrote:
>> Hi,
>> 
>> I am trying to figure what the fastest way would be to send a
>> mapreduce result set for indexing into a searchengine system like
>> elasticsearch.
>> 
>> Of course, the trivial way to do it would be to simply gather the
>> result set and push it back into the indexer using their http/rest
>> api.
>> 
>> Now, elasticsearch is distributed by nature and will allow parallel
>> queries for document insertion for indexing. One way to leverage this
>> would be to actually directly push a document from within a map
>> function into the indexer using their rest api. This would completely
>> distribute the index creation process and leverage the parallelism of
>> elasticsearch.
>> 
>> Would this be possible?
>> 
>> Is this something I could do using the JavaScript mapreduce? and/or Erlang?
>> 
>> Thanks,
>> Colin
>> 
> 
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

