---
title: "Re: Luwak EOL"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-12-21T14:27:26-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06027"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06024"
author_name: "John Axel Eriksson"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-12-21T14:27:26-08:00
---


Wow. Is this for real? I almost can't believe it. This is the feature we
use most in Riak, we really depend on it and have quite a lot of data
stored. Suddenly Riak became a dead-end for us. We've used Riak for more
than a year and have invested quite a lot of time in it. This is indeed
very sad news, not at all what I wanted for christmas :-(.

Does anyone have any experience with other similar replicated data stores
with an http interface (along the lines of Luwak or S3 but neither of those
two of course)? Any suggestions from others in our situation?

On Wed, Dec 21, 2011 at 8:16 PM, David Smith  wrote:

> On Tue, Dec 20, 2011 at 11:08 PM, Paul Gross  wrote:
>
> >> Does this mean there is still an intention to support storing larger
> >> values in Riak in the future?
> >
> > Or is this something the client libraries should implement?
>
> You could certainly implement the necessary chunking and such in
> client libraries. However, it's a pretty big set of functionality and
> getting it to work right with in partitioned circumstances (i.e. with
> siblings) can be a challenge. As such, I don't expect that to be part
> of the standard client libraries anytime soon.
>
> D.
>
> --
> Dave Smith
> Director, Engineering
> Basho Technologies, Inc.
> diz...@basho.com
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

