---
title: "Re: Riak Adoption - What can we do better?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-04-21T06:20:44-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07275"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg07271"
author_name: "Jared Morrow"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-04-21T06:20:44-07:00
---


Buriwoy,

The book you are looking for \*is\* the Riak Handbook based on your description. 
 

The code for his book is on Github, he knows what he is talking about in this 
space having worked to both support Riak and on Riak clients. It is not 
published by Oreilly, but is self-published, which I consider a plus and not a 
minus. He has already done one update to the book and has said he is going to 
update it further as more features are released. Also, if you find things 
either wrong or lacking in his book, he even takes pull requests on his Github 
repo as an Errata and feature request tool.

I know you have a preference towards Oreilly because you get 50% off, but 50% 
off doesn't make the book. :)

-Jared


On Apr 20, 2012, at 5:23 PM, Buri Arslon wrote:

> +2 for a book; O'Reilly would be nice
> +1 for quality screencasts
> +1 for a tutorial for newbies like Django has
> +1 gui admin like pgadmin or mysqlmyadmin
> 
> I didn't read Mathias' book, but my impression from Table of Contents and 
> sample.pdf was that it's very easy-read, good to understand the concepts. 
> Some coupon/discount would be nice :)
> 
> My own imagination of a potential reader for "Riak: The Definitive Guide" 
> book is:
> 
> - He has some knowledge of RDBMS, but not guru
> - Almost no knowledge about NoSQL.
> - May migrate to Riak from SQL database, say mysql.
> - May know some Erlang
> - learns better by looking how it's done
> - concept/theory should be followed by application of it.
> - use cases (when it is more than appropriate to use Riak, and when not)
> - schema examples
> - O'Reilly book
> 
> It looks like I described myself, I'm afraid. :)
> 
> And the last point was my personal preference as I have 50% discount as a 
> member ;)
> 
> -- buriwoy
> 
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

