---
title: "Re: Correct way to use pbc/mapreduce to do multiget where keys and	bucket names are binary values?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-06-16T09:55:00-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03717"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg03556"
author_name: "Jacques"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-06-16T09:55:00-07:00
---


Thanks for the info. As a note, I found that the javascript function was
having trouble return binary values.

I followed your suggestion and am now using the following function. (Here
for others.)

-module(multiget).
-export([key\_value/3]).

key\_value({error, notfound}, \_KD, \_) ->
 none;
key\_value(RiakObject, \_KD, \_) ->
 [riak\_object:bucket(RiakObject),riak\_object:key(RiakObject),
riak\_object:get\_value(RiakObject)].


Thanks again for your help. I haven't done performance tests yet but am
hoping that this is more performant than 20 individual gets.

I must say that I'm still quite surprised that a key value store of Riak's
caliber doesn't have a native binary multiget within the core pbc api.

Jacques

On Thu, Jun 16, 2011 at 5:03 AM, Russell Brown  wrote:

> Hi Jaques,
> Sorry for the slow reply. I think this one just slipped by me.
>
> Ok. answers inline below:
>
> On 14 Jun 2011, at 18:26, Jacques wrote:
>
> Does anybody have any insight on my questions below?
>
> Thanks,
> Jacques
>
>
> On Tue, Jun 7, 2011 at 6:12 PM, Jacques  wrote:
>
>> I've been working on this. I have it working with an anonymous javascript
>> function. I was hoping to move it to using the "map\_object\_value" built-in
>> erlang function. However, when I attempt to use this function, I get
>> failures if any of my keys don't exist. Is there a way to construct my map
>> phase so that it gracefully handles not founds and just returns what it
>> finds?
>
>
> Yes. riak\_kv\_mapreduce:map\_object\_value accepts an arg value of
> either "filter\_notfound", "include\_notfound" or "include\_keydata", so your
> not found values can be omitted by passing "filter\_notfound" as the arg
> value for the map phase (instead of ATOM\_NONE in your construction.)
>
>
>> Also, using this function, is there a way to return the bucket and key
>> names?
>>
>
> No not using riak\_kv\_mapreduce:map\_object\_value, you could use
> riak\_kv\_mapreduce:map\_identity to get the whole riak object (meta data, key
> and value) or just write your own map reduce function that returns the data
> you want (and can filter out the not founds just like map\_object\_value)
>
> Or can one assume the response order is identical to the order of inputs?
>>
>
> No.
>
> deletia
>
>
> Cheers
>
> Russell
>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

