---
title: "Re: Riak in a common test suite"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-07-12T09:42:35-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03994"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg03993"
author_name: "Jared Morrow"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-07-12T09:42:35-07:00
---


Mikhail,

I'll add something to virtualized option. If you start the vm's from a
snapshot vm that is already running, but with riak stopped, you could
possibly get it started and running in a couple of minutes or less. If
that is reasonable for your test suite, that seems like a good option.

-Jared

On Tue, Jul 12, 2011 at 10:29 AM, Mathias Meyer  wrote:

> Mikhail,
>
> that certainly sounds possible, but would extend the run time of your test
> suite quite considerably, e.g. when you start a fresh set of virtualized
> instances on every run.
>
> An alternative would be to always leave a Riak cluster running for testing
> purposes and reset it after or before every complete test run, i.e. stop the
> Riak processes, wipe the data, and start them up again.
>
> Ripple (Ruby client for Riak) and riak-js (Node.js client) both include a
> test server that runs a Riak instance with an in-memory backend, maybe that
> would be an alternative to go with?
>
> Mathias Meyer
> Developer Advocate, Basho Technologies
>
>
> On Dienstag, 12. Juli 2011 at 18:08, Mikhail Sobolev wrote:
>
> > Hi,
> >
> > As part of our test suite I'd like to start a three node cluster for the
> > testing purposes.
> >
> > Could anyone [please! :)] comment on feasibility/possibility of such a
> > thing?
> >
> > --
> > Misha
> > \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> > riak-users mailing list
> > riak-users@lists.basho.com (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
> > http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

