---
title: "Hello, Bitcask!"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-05-05T08:47:03-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00259"
author_name: "Justin Sheehy"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-05-05T08:47:03-07:00

---


Riak Users,

You might have noticed that we released a new local key/value store
recently: http://blog.basho.com/2010/04/27/hello,-bitcask/

As of just now, it is available as a storage engine ("backend") in the
tip of the Riak repository.

You can use it like any other backend just by setting the
storage\_backend application variable in the riak\_kv application to
riak\_kv\_bitcask\_backend (in your "app.config") on a fresh node so that
it will use Bitcask for storage.

There is a new application in app.config, "bitcask", for more detailed
configuration of bitcask behavior. Some of the variables you can set
in there are:

data\_root: string (required) - the directory for bitcask to use for
storage and metadata

merge\_strategy: {hours, N} - perform a data file merge every N hours

sync\_strategy: how to manage syncing of data files being written. choices:
 none (default) - let the O/S decide
 o\_sync - use the O\_SYNC flag to sync each write
 {seconds, N} - call bitcask:sync/1 every N seconds

A couple of things aren't done yet, including more proactive
generation of hintfiles, faster startup time, smarter merge
strategies, more extensive testing on more platforms, documentation on
usage, and more. We are not yet recommending this as a primary
production backend, but we expect to very soon. Your feedback is
welcomed.

-Justin

p.s. -- it's not slow.

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

