---
title: "Re: list keys with key filters"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-04-23T13:18:28-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07293"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg07288"
author_name: "Sam Lang"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-04-23T13:18:28-07:00
---



On Apr 23, 2012, at 8:29 AM, Bryan Fink wrote:

> On Sat, Apr 21, 2012 at 12:39 PM, Sam Lang  wrote:
>> When I use ascii or json objects, I don't get the exception, and the keys 
>> get listed properly. I assume that riak is trying to parse the data of my 
>> binary object and failing because the data isn't utf8 encoded. Is it 
>> possible to do this without writing my own data extractor? Is there a 
>> better way to list a subset of keys?
> 
> Hi, Sam. Your intuition is correct: the bad\_utf8\_character\_code error
> is coming from Riak trying to encode each object to JSON for your
> Javascript map phase to process.
> 
> If all you want is to get the keys back to your client, and you're
> using Riak 1.1 or newer with the latest Python client, then the
> simplest workaround is to call query.run() without any phases at all:
> 
>>>> query = client.add("foo")
>>>> query.add\_key\_filter("ends\_with", "z")
> 
>>>> v = query.run()
>>>> v[0].\_key
> u'baz'
> 
> Note that you will still end up with an encoding error if your keys
> cannot be encoded as JSON.

That worked, thanks Bryan! Any way to avoid sending the values of the object 
to the client as well?
-sam

> 
> HTH,
> Bryan
> 
> P.S. If you're using an older version of Riak and/or the Python
> client, you may need to use the hack of a single-phase query, of just
> one reduce phase implemented by the Erlang function
> riak\_kv\_mapreduce:reduce\_identity, instead of using the empty query.


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

