---
title: "Re: Riak synchronized"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-02-14T05:02:26-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06598"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06597"
author_name: "Andres Jaan Tack"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-02-14T05:02:26-08:00
---


>
> All these things, of course, assume that the cluster is not
> partitioned in any way more interesting than a bunch of nodes being
> offline. Split brain would break all synchronization.


You should read this:
http://codahale.com/you-cant-sacrifice-partition-tolerance/

Riak's primary application as a key-value store is precisely to provide a
mechanism to deal with partition tolerance. It borrows the inventive step
of Dynamo to do this without sacrificing writeability (and more generally
availability). The above text makes a case for why this your assumption
("no split brain") is invalid: you always have to have an answer for the
split brain.

Given this, I'm struggling to find value in your contribution. Was there a
specific application you had in mind?

--
Andres

2012/2/14 Martin Bruse 

> Hello list, I am looking for some clever comments and critique.
>
> This is my first post, so have patience with my loutish behavior :)
>
> At the company where I work we have built an EventMachine
>  based Ruby client to Riak that
> simplifies both asynchronous HTTP requests and a few relation
> concepts.
>
> You can find it at https://github.com/ProjectDaisy/blodsband if you
> are interested.
>
> In this project I have added a few things that add a synchronous layer
> on top of Riak. For example a compare-and-set method that guarantees
> uniqueness of a document update.
>
> This is used for a #put\_if\_missing method, a Lock class to synchronize
> operations, and (lo and behold) a linked list class using Riak
> documents for elements.
>
> All these things, of course, assume that the cluster is not
> partitioned in any way more interesting than a bunch of nodes being
> offline. Split brain would break all synchronization.
>
> They all seem to work in our tests, but I would be very happy for some
> peer review educated comments!
>
> regards,
> //Martin
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

