---
title: "Large ring_creation_size"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-04-13T12:13:50-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03009"
author_name: "Greg Nelson"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-04-13T12:13:50-07:00

---


Hello, 

I am experimenting with different ring sizes for a Riak cluster that will 
initially be 3-5 nodes but will grow to a large number of nodes, like 1000 or 
more. I'm also using the multiple disks per node setup discussed in other 
thread on this list. Because of that, we'll need to have at least 1 partition 
per disk on each node. So if we plan to grow to 1000 12 disk nodes, we'll need 
to have at least 12,000 partitions. Since ring\_creation\_size needs to be a 
power of 2, this means we should start with 2^14 = 16,384.

When I do this on a single node, it actually starts up just fine and uses about 
1GB of memory. And that single-node cluster seems to operate normally, although 
CPU usage is much higher than when with a much smaller ring of 1024. But as 
soon as I try to join a second node with the first, it ramps up memory usage 
and ultimately crashes. This happens even when I tone it down to 
ring\_creation\_size = 4096.

These test machines don't have much memory (2 GB), but this behavior seems 
strange. Why would a single node cluster handle many thousands of partitions, 
but as soon as you join a second node resource usage on both machines goes 
through the roof? This is before there's even any data stored.

A more general question is what is the resource impact of each vnode? They 
share the keydir.. Do they each have their own copy of the ring state? Or other 
data structures?

I'd also love to hear any other thoughts on growing into a cluster this large. 
:)

grourk \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

