---
title: "Re: CorrugatedIron v0.1.3 Released"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-09-30T11:14:24-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04946"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04943"
author_name: "Kyle Quest"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-09-30T11:14:24-07:00
---


I looked at a lot of different Riak libraries in different languages
for my work with Riak and CorrugatedIron was one of them. This gave me
an opportunity to compare how each of them worked. CorrugatedIron was
one of the more complicated ones :-) It was also one of the hardest to
make it work because of the app config design (the library generated
exception when it tried to load the config data). My suggestion for
anybody trying to design a new client library is to mimic the API of
the existing official libraries first and then add fancy features :-)
This will help the adoption. If it's too complicated (to understand
and to setup) then people will simply give up and go somewhere else.

On Fri, Sep 30, 2011 at 10:45 AM, Jeremiah Peschka
 wrote:
> Thanks. I can't take all the credit/blame - OJ Reeves has written massive 
> amounts of code, too.
>
> We're aware that many people like to complain about our use of config files. 
> When you write a piece of software, you make the choice between shipping 
> software or adding more features. We chose to ship CorrugatedIron and see 
> then what people liked and what they didn't like.
>
> People didn't like our use of .NET's crusty old config system that they even 
> created a github issue about it: 
> https://github.com/DistributedNonsense/CorrugatedIron/issues/4
>
> We hear you and will be moving to get this out as soon as we can after we get 
> the Riak 1.0 feature compatibility ironed out.
>
> Is our use of .NET configuration files blocking adoption of CorrugatedIron in 
> your organization?
> ---
> Jeremiah Peschka - Founder, Brent Ozar PLF, LLC
> Microsoft SQL Server MVP
>
> On Sep 30, 2011, at 1:40 PM, Kyle Quest wrote:
>
>> Jeremiah, really nice job on CorrugatedIron! Some of it is a bit too
>> over-engineered and more complicated than it has to be. For example,
>> you can't just create a RiakClient object and interact with Riak (like
>> you can do with the official Riak client libraries)... To create a
>> RiakClient (in CorrugatedIron) you need to have a RiakCluster object
>> to pass to the RiakClient object constructor. And you can't easily
>> create a RiakCluster object either. You can only create it from a
>> config section (there's no way to explicitly provide the config values
>> directly in the API). Not every app uses .NET app config files and
>> it's also not uncommon for the app config code to cause exceptions
>> because it can be brittle...
>>
>> On Thu, Sep 22, 2011 at 3:33 PM, Jeremiah Peschka
>>  wrote:
>>> I just finished up v0.1.3 of CorrugatedIron, everyone's favorite .NET 4.0 
>>> Riak client. There is no new functionality in this release, just a fix from 
>>> Matthew Whitfield: 
>>> https://github.com/DistributedNonsense/CorrugatedIron/issues/18
>>>
>>> Thanks Matt for helping us make CorrugatedIron better!
>>>
>>> Binaries have been pushed to NuGet 
>>> (http://nuget.org/List/Packages/CorrugatedIron) and source is available on 
>>> github 
>>> (https://github.com/DistributedNonsense/CorrugatedIron/commit/e9c0af10465176f117bbbf04724087063f9b7fd2)
>>>
>>> Enjoy!
>>>
>>> ---
>>> Jeremiah Peschka - Founder, Brent Ozar PLF, LLC
>>> Microsoft SQL Server MVP
>>>
>>>
>>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>>> riak-users mailing list
>>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>>
>
>

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

