---
title: "Re: Riak 0.14.* and Erlang 14B03"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-06-29T10:03:40-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03870"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg03869"
author_name: "Jared Morrow"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-06-29T10:03:40-07:00
---


Greg,

You need Erlang 13B04 for Riak 0.14.2. If you want to use 14B03 for other
projects, you can have them both 14 and 13 installed at the same time and
simply set the path to say /usr/local/erlang-13b04/bin in your environment
before running Riak.

Github master of Riak specifies R14B03 moving forward.

-Jared

On Wed, Jun 29, 2011 at 10:50 AM, Gregory Haskins  wrote:

>
>
> On 6/29/11 12:44 PM, Gregory Haskins wrote:
> > Hi All,
> >
> > I have run into the build problems with Riak and the latest Erlang. I
> > have also seen the github commits to understand that others have seen
> > this too and a fix is on the way (0.14.2 presumably?).
>
> Sorry, I meant s/0.14.2/0.14.3 and s/0.14.1/0.14.2 throughout. Sorry
> for the confusion. I should have checked my facts instead of relying on
> memory before posting ;)
>
> >
> > But that aside, I found this problem when I, of course, upgraded my
> > system to 14B03 which has both riak.git and riak-0.14.1.rpm installed.
> > What I was perhaps more surprised by was that my already compiled
> > riak.rpm now seems to have stopped working and I don't know why, but I
> > suspect it was coincident with the erlang upgrade (1).
> >
> > So my question is: Would we expect run-time errors with riak-0.14.1
> > binaries against 14B03, or is something else going on here? FWIW: I
> > tried blowing away my /var/lib/riak and /var/log/riak files in hopes
> > that I could get passed this problem (its just development data) but no
> > luck. "service start riak" says "ok", but I do not get any logs (that I
> > can see) nor do I see the beam.smp running. Any help appreciated.
> >
> > [1] note that I also saw sasl high-water memory errors in the logs in
> > the days leading up to the upgrade and eventual death, so there is a
> > possibility it is related to this as well.
> >
> > Thanks!
> > -Greg
> >
>
>
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

