---
title: "Re: Absolute consistency"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-01-05T12:53:09-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06140"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06139"
author_name: "Tim Robinson"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-01-05T12:53:09-08:00
---


So with the original thread where with N=3 on 3 nodes. The developer believed 
each node was getting a copy. When in fact 2 copies went to a single node. So 
yes, there's redundancy and the "shock" value can go away :) My apologies.

That said, I have no ability to assess how much data space that is wasting, but 
it seems like potentially 1/3 - correct?

Another way to look at it, using the above noted case, is that I need to 
double[1] the amount of hardware needed to achieve a single amount of 
redundancy. 

[1] not specifically, but effectively.


-----Original Message-----
From: "Aphyr" 
Sent: Thursday, January 5, 2012 1:29pm
To: "Tim Robinson" 
Cc: "Runar Jordahl" , riak-users@lists.basho.com
Subject: Re: Absolute consistency

On 01/05/2012 12:12 PM, Tim Robinson wrote:
> Thank you for this info. I'm still somewhat confused.
>
> Why would anyone ever want 2 copies on one physical PC? Correct me if
> I am wrong, but part of the sales pitch for Riak is that the cost of
> hardware is lessened by distributing your data across a cluster of
> less expensive machines as opposed to having it all one reside on an
> enormous server with very little redundancy.
>
> The 2 copies of data on one physical PC provides no redundancy, but
> increases hardware costs quite a bit.
>
> Right?

Because in the case you expressed shock over, the pigeonhole
principle makes it \*impossible\* to store three copies of information in
two places without overlap. The alternative is lying to you about the
replica semantics. That would be bad.

In the second case I described, it's an artifact of a simplistic but 
correct vnode sharding algorithm which uses the partion ID modulo node 
count to assign the node for each partition. When N is not a multiple of 
n, the last and the first (or second, etc, you do the math) partitions 
can wind up on the same node. If you don't use even multiples of n/N, 
the proportion of data that does overlap on one node is on the order of 
1/64 to 1/1024 of the keyspace. This is not a significant operational cost.

This \*does\* reduce fault tolerance: losing those two "special" nodes 
(but not two arbitrary nodes) can destroy those special keys even though 
they were stored with N=3. As the probability of losing two \*particular\* 
nodes simultaneously compares favorably with the probability of losing 
\*any three\* nodes simultaneously, I haven't been that concerned over it. 
It takes roughly six hours for me to allocate a new machine and restore 
the destroyed node's backup to it. Anecdotally, I think you're more 
likely to see \*cluster\* failure than \*dual node\* failure in a small 
distributed system, but that's a long story.

The riak team has been aware of this since at least Jun 2010 
(https://issues.basho.com/show\_bug.cgi?id=228), and there are 
operational workarounds involving target\_n\_val. As I understand it, 
solving the key distribution problem is... nontrivial.

--Kyle


Tim Robinson



\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

