---
title: "Re: Link walking with a java client"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-05-29T09:04:01-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07559"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg07545"
author_name: "Brian Roach"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-05-29T09:04:01-07:00
---


Deepak -

I'll take a look at it this week, but more than likely it's a bug.

Link walking is a REST only operation as far as Riak’s interfaces are 
concerned. Link Walking in the protocol buffers Java client is a hack that 
issues two m/r jobs to the protocol buffers interface (the first constructs the 
inputs to the second by walking the links, the second returns the data).

Thanks,
Brian Roach

On May 27, 2012, at 7:19 AM, Deepak Balasubramanyam wrote:

> This looks like a bug. The code to walk links via a HTTP client works 
> perfectly. The same code fails when the PB client is used. The POJO attached 
> in this email reproduces the problem.
> 
> I searched the email archives and existing issues and found no trace of this 
> problem. Please run the POJO by swapping the clients returned from the 
> getClient() method to reproduce the problem. I can create a bug report once 
> someone from the dev team confirms this really is a bug.
> 
> Riak client pom:
> 
> com.basho.riak
> riak-client
> 1.0.5
> 
> 
> Riak server version - 1.1.2. Built from source. 
> 4 nodes running on 1 machine. OS - Linux mint.
> 
> On Sun, May 27, 2012 at 10:05 AM, Deepak Balasubramanyam 
>  wrote:
> Hi,
> 
> I have a cluster that contains 2 buckets. A bucket named 'usersMine' contains 
> the key 'user2', which is linked to several keys (about 10) under a bucket 
> named userPreferences. The relationship exists under the name 'myPref'. A 
> user and a preference have String values.
> 
> I can successfully traverse the link over HTTP using the following URL - 
> 
> curl -v localhost:8091/riak/usersMine/user2/\_,myPref,1
> 
> ------------------------ ------------------------ ------------------------ 
> > User-Agent: curl/7.21.6 (i686-pc-linux-gnu) libcurl/7.21.6 OpenSSL/1.0.0e 
> > zlib/1.2.3.4 libidn/1.22 librtmp/2.3
> > Host: localhost:8091
> > Accept: \*/\*
> > 
> < HTTP/1.1 200 OK
> < Server: MochiWeb/1.1 WebMachine/1.9.0 (someone had painted it blue)
> < Expires: Sun, 27 May 2012 04:12:39 GMT
> < Date: Sun, 27 May 2012 04:02:39 GMT
> < Content-Type: multipart/mixed; boundary=IYGfKNqjGdco9ddfyjRP1Utzfi2
> < Content-Length: 3271
> < 
> 
> --IYGfKNqjGdco9ddfyjRP1Utzfi2
> Content-Type: multipart/mixed; boundary=3YVES0x2tFnUDOdTzfn1OGS6uMt
> 
> --3YVES0x2tFnUDOdTzfn1OGS6uMt
> X-Riak-Vclock: a85hYGBgzGDKBVIcMRuuc/nvy7mSwZTImMfKUKpodpIvCwA=
> Location: /riak/userPreferences/preference3004
> Content-Type: text/plain; charset=UTF-8
> Link: ; rel="up"
> Etag: 5GucnGSk4TjQc8BO1eNLyI
> Last-Modified: Sun, 27 May 2012 03:54:29 GMT
> 
> junk
> 
> << ------------------------ Truncated ------------------------ >>
> junk
> --3YVES0x2tFnUDOdTzfn1OGS6uMt--
> 
> --IYGfKNqjGdco9ddfyjRP1Utzfi2--
> ------------------------ ------------------------ ------------------------ 
> 
> However when I use the java client to walk the link, I get a 
> ClassCastException.
> 
> ------------------------ ------------------------ ------------------------
> Java code:
> ------------------------ ------------------------ ------------------------
> private void getAllLinks()
> {
> String user="user2";
> IRiakClient riakClient = null;
> try
> {
> long past = System.currentTimeMillis();
> riakClient = RiakFactory.pbcClient("localhost",8081);
> Bucket userBucket = riakClient.fetchBucket("usersMine").execute();
> DefaultRiakObject user1 =(DefaultRiakObject) 
> userBucket.fetch(user).execute();
> List links = user1.getLinks();
> System.out.println(links.size());
> WalkResult execute = 
> riakClient.walk(user1).addStep("userPreferences", "myPref",true).execute();
> Iterator iterator = execute.iterator();
> while(iterator.hasNext())
> {
> Object next = iterator.next();
> System.out.println(next);
> }
> long now = System.currentTimeMillis();
> System.out.println("Retrieval in " + (now-past) + " ms");
> }
> catch (Exception e)
> {
> e.printStackTrace();
> }
> finally
> {
> if(riakClient != null)
> {
> riakClient.shutdown();
> }
> } 
> }
> 
> ------------------------ ------------------------ ------------------------ 
> Stack:
> ------------------------ ------------------------ ------------------------ 
> java.lang.ClassCastException: java.lang.String cannot be cast to 
> java.util.List
> at 
> com.basho.riak.client.raw.pbc.PBClientAdapter.linkWalkSecondPhase(PBClientAdapter.java:380)
> at 
> com.basho.riak.client.raw.pbc.PBClientAdapter.linkWalk(PBClientAdapter.java:325)
> at com.basho.riak.client.query.LinkWalk.execute(LinkWalk.java:63)
> at 
> com.chatterbox.persistence.riak.RiakTest.getAllLinks(RiakTest.java:81)
> at com.chatterbox.persistence.riak.RiakTest.main(RiakTest.java:25)
> ------------------------ ------------------------ ------------------------ 
> 
> At line 380 on PBClientAdapter, an enhanced for loop attempts to iterate over 
> a Collection> while the actual value is a List. This 
> causes the exception. The value of the variable 'step' at the time of the 
> exception is [userPreferences, preference3000, myPref].
> 
> Am i doing something wrong ? The java code retrieves links in a fashion that 
> is similar to the HTTP retrieval, so I am puzzled by the ClassCast. 
> 
> Thanks
> Deepak
> 
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

