---
title: "Re: Riak 1.0 pre-release series"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-09-09T17:25:30-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04641"
author_name: "Jared Morrow"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-09-09T17:25:30-07:00

---


Riak-Users,

The next build in the pre-release series is ready for you to download.
Also, you will notice that the RELEASE-NOTES are now available as well.

Release notes: https://github.com/basho/riak/blob/1.0/RELEASE-NOTES

Builds: http://downloads.basho.com/riak/riak-1.0.0pre2/

Enjoy!

-Jared

On Wed, Sep 7, 2011 at 5:24 PM, David Smith  wrote:

> Hi All,
>
> I'm proud to announce that we're taking the first steps towards
> releasing Riak 1.0 with the creation of the 1.0 branch and initial
> package builds. With 1.0, we will be doing two series of builds before
> the final release.
>
> The first stage is "pre-release" (aka PR) builds that represent the
> feature-complete Riak 1.0, with minor cleanup and tweaks still
> ongoing. You WILL find some rough edges with packaging and the
> features -- we're still working through these and will do pre-releases
> as often as necessary to get these issues resolved. We'll also be
> trying to incorporate outstanding pull requests where change is
> minimal/manageable.
>
> The second stage is "release candidate" (aka RC) builds that represent
> what we believe to be a solid product, suitable for release. Once we
> hit this stage, only major, show-stopping bugs will be addressed.
>
> We would love to get your feedback on these builds, good or bad. We're
> trying this new process to do a better job of incorporating community
> feedback BEFORE the release. :) If you run into issues, please drop us
> a line on the ML or in IRC -- we'll do our best to stay on top of it.
> If you'd like to file bugs, we ask you do a check of bugzilla to avoid
> creating duplicate issues. Also note that the docs on wiki.basho.com
> may still reflect 0.14.2; we'll be addressing those over next few
> weeks.
>
> It goes without saying that you should think twice before running a PR
> or RC in production. :)
>
> So, without further ado:
>
> http://downloads.basho.com/riak/riak-1.0.0pre1/
>
> D.
>
> --
> Dave Smith
> Director, Engineering
> Basho Technologies, Inc.
> diz...@basho.com
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

