---
title: "Re: Bucket naming and organizing conventions"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-12-08T15:07:25-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01757"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg01756"
author_name: "Jeremiah Peschka"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-12-08T15:07:25-08:00
---


Currently Riak is not designed as a multi-tenancy solution. You've hit on
the best way, AFAIK, to do this: bucket names as [APPNAME]\_[BUCKETNAME]. It
will certainly save you hardware costs over having one Riak cluster per
application, although I don't know what the performance implications of this
might be - MapReduce might get a bit slow if you have a large number of
applications with a large number of buckets and a large number keys (100
apps with 10 with 1000 keys is 1,000,000). This problem, admittedly, will go
away in Riak 0.14 with the improvements in MapReduce to filter keys by
bucket-specific.

Hopefully someone who has built a number of applications on top of Riak can
chime in on their real-world experience.

Jeremiah Peschka
Microsoft SQL Server MVP
MCITP: Database Developer, DBA


On Wed, Dec 8, 2010 at 11:24 AM, S.A. Kiehn  wrote:

> I recently started looking into Riak and like many others I have relational
> DB block. My questions are regarding bucket naming and organizing per
> application. I have seen examples where the bucket name is something like
> "articles". My assumption is that is just an example and that real world
> naming would be something that qualifies the bucket some more:
> myapp\_articles. So if another app that is using Riak has an articles object
> then the bucket would be "anudderapp\_articles". Is this the way this should
> work to separate apps, or am I not understanding something basic.
>
> Thanks, Scott
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

