---
title: "Re: rebar_riak_core question"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-01-13T16:11:19-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06278"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06275"
author_name: "Joel Meyer"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-01-13T16:11:19-08:00
---


Thanks for the response, Jeff. I switched to the multinode template, which
generates a reltool.config and has the right lines in it, so things are
working now. I'm also looking through the reltool docs and reading the
relevant sections in "Erlang and OTP in Action". I probably should've done
that long ago, but framewerk takes a more J2EE/app container approach, so I
haven't had to deal with it up to now.

Thanks again,
Joel

On Fri, Jan 13, 2012 at 8:25 AM, Jeff Thompson  wrote:

> Hey Joel,
>
> I can't speak to which templates to use, but the error you are seeing is
> happening because you have a line with {boot\_rel, "freqserver"} but no
> corresponding {rel, "freqserver", "x.x.x", []} release configuration.''
>
> Again, I apologize that I don't have a full answer to the questions you
> are asking, but hopefully this helps you some in tracking down the issue.
> You can find more on reltool.config here
> http://www.erlang.org/doc/man/reltool.html if you haven't looked already.
>
> Best of luck,
>
> Jeff
>
>
>
> On Thu, Jan 12, 2012 at 11:45 PM, Joel Meyer  wrote:
>
>> Hi,
>>
>> I've got a riak\_core application based on 0.13.0 that I'm updating to
>> riak\_core 1.0. In the process, I thought I'd try moving it from framewerk
>> to rebar. For my initial attempt I used the riak\_core template, but when I
>> tried to build a release with reltool I got the following error:
>>
>> [root@rocky:experimental/freqserver]# rebar generate
>> ==> rel (generate)
>> {"init terminating in do\_boot","Release freqserver uses non existing
>> application freqserver"}
>>
>> This got me looking at the differences between the riak\_core template and
>> the riak\_core\_multinode template. It looks like the riak\_core template puts
>> src in the src/ dir (and doesn't include things like the handoff-handlers,
>> etc) while the multinode template puts src in apps/{{app\_id}}/ and includes
>> more things. Could someone shed some light on when to use which template?
>> My application is currently deployed on more than one node (84 currently).
>>
>> Thanks,
>> Joel
>>
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>
>>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

