---
title: "Re: LevelDB memory problem crashes Erlang"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-08-10T19:12:38-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08265"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg08261"
author_name: "Jared Morrow"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-08-10T19:12:38-07:00
---


The information Joseph requested is important though. The number of 
improvements to LevelDB in Riak 1.2 was huge, so knowing if this is Riak 1.2 or 
Riak 1.1.4 would be great.

-Jared

On Aug 10, 2012, at 7:45 PM, Philipp Borgers  wrote:

> Seems like you don't have enough RAM. If you do a lot of inserts this
> seems to be normal. I had this issue while benchmarking riak with
> basho\_bench. You should add limit for the requests per second in your
> script. Take a look at the memory profile of the erlang process (htop,
> dstat) while importing data.
> 
> Regards
> 
> Philipp
> 
> On Fri, 2012-08-10 at 13:36 -0700, leonickel wrote:
>> Hi all,
>> 
>> I'm facing a weird problem using eleveldb store option data. The amount of
>> memory starts to increase while i'm running a script to put data inside
>> riak, nearly 10 million of keys in a single bucket and suddenly riak process
>> crashes. My object is in json format and is about 1.5 kb each. At the
>> momment of running script, the proccess memory (beam.smp) increases to about
>> 450mb and then the Erlang crashes. I've got this message on logs:
>> 
>> terminate called after throwing an instance of 'std::bad\_alloc'
>> what(): std::bad\_alloc
>> Erlang has closed
>> /usr/lib/riak/lib/os\_mon-2.2.9/priv/bin/memsup: Erlang has closed. 
>> 
>> In my script i'm using java client and sending requests over http protocol.
>> 
>> Here are some more information about my environment and riak configs:
>> 
>> - erlang version: R14B03;
>> - os: Ubuntu 11.04;
>> 
>> - single node;
>> - n\_val = 1 (i've tried default value 3 and got the same behavior);
>> - ring\_creation\_size = 64
>> - allow\_mult = false;
>> - last\_write\_wins = true;
>> - r = 1;
>> - w = 1;
>> 
>> I've done the same test using bitcask configuration and works fine, i could
>> put all my 10 million keys.
>> 
>> Can anyone help me with this?
>> 
>> Thanks in advance,
>> 
>> Leo
>> 
>> 
>> 
>> 
>> --
>> View this message in context: 
>> http://riak-users.197444.n3.nabble.com/LevelDB-memory-problem-crashes-Erlang-tp4024974.html
>> Sent from the Riak Users mailing list archive at Nabble.com.
>> 
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> 
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

