---
title: "Re: Adding a new machine to a three node cluster cause partition	handoff problems"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-01-10T10:26:36-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06215"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06213"
author_name: "Joseph Blomstedt"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-01-10T10:26:36-08:00
---


> There's a code snippet in riak 1.0.1 or 1.0.2 release notes which addresses 
> this. Sorry can't find it for you, network here is useless. :(

The code snippet in the release notes deals with a different issue.
The case where Riak believes all handoff has already occurred, but
refuses to actually change partition ownership. This case is easily
determined by seeing cases of "Waiting on: []" in 'riak-admin
ring\_status'. In other words, waiting on the empty-set, on nothing.

The issue reported here is different. Ring status shows 'Waiting on:
[riak\_kv\_vnode]'. This is an issue with the kv-vnode not triggering
handoff. The solutions outlined above should work for this simpler
case.

For the curious, or those that ever run into the 'Waiting on: []"
issue, the snippet Kyle mentioned can be found in the "Ownership
Handoff Stall" section here:
https://github.com/basho/riak/blob/1.0.2-release/RELEASE-NOTES.org

-Joe

On Tue, Jan 10, 2012 at 9:40 AM, Aphyr  wrote:
> There's a code snippet in riak 1.0.1 or 1.0.2 release notes which addresses 
> this. Sorry can't find it for you, network here is useless. :(
>
> Ivaylo Panitchkov  wrote:
>
>>
>>Hello All,
>>
>>We have a cluster of three machines (Debian 6.0, 4GB RAM,
>>riak\_1.0.2-1\_amd64.deb, n\_val: 3) that serves an application for a
>>while. As we go to production soon added a fourth machine to the cluster
>>(exactly the same as the first three) yesterday. The partition handoff
>>began in the late afternoon and I had an impression that the transition
>>will not take too long as there are only few hundred IMPORTANT records
>>in the storage for the moment. Today in the morning checked the
>>situation again and realized the partition handoff still runs (or get
>>stuck). The Ownership Handoff is still the same since yesterday (at
>>least 19 hours till now). Any suggestions to fix the problem are welcome :-)
>>
>>REMARK: Replaced the IP addresses for security sake
>>
>>
>># riak-admin ringready
>>Attempting to restart script through sudo -u riak
>>TRUE All nodes agree on the ring
>>['r...@yyy.yyy.yyy.yyy','r...@xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx','r...@aaa.aaa.aaa.aaa','r...@bbb.bbb.bbb.bbb']
>>
>>
>># riak-admin transfers
>>Attempting to restart script through sudo -u riak
>>'r...@bbb.bbb.bbb.bbb' waiting to handoff 2 partitions
>>'r...@aaa.aaa.aaa.aaa' waiting to handoff 2 partitions
>>'r...@yyy.yyy.yyy.yyy' waiting to handoff 2 partitions
>>
>>
>># riak-admin ring\_status
>>Attempting to restart script through sudo -u riak
>>================================== Claimant
>>===================================
>>Claimant: 'r...@xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx'
>>Status: up
>>Ring Ready: true
>>
>>============================== Ownership Handoff
>>==============================
>>Owner: r...@xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx
>>Next Owner: r...@yyy.yyy.yyy.yyy
>>
>>Index: 548063113999088594326381812268606132370974703616
>>Waiting on: [riak\_kv\_vnode]
>>Complete: [riak\_pipe\_vnode]
>>
>>Index: 1370157784997721485815954530671515330927436759040
>>Waiting on: [riak\_kv\_vnode]
>>Complete: [riak\_pipe\_vnode]
>>
>>-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
>>
>>============================== Unreachable Nodes
>>==============================
>>All nodes are up and reachable
>>
>>
>># riak-admin member\_status
>>Attempting to restart script through sudo -u riak
>>================================= Membership
>>==================================
>>Status Ring Pending Node
>>-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
>>valid 21.9% 25.0% 'r...@yyy.yyy.yyy.yyy'
>>valid 28.1% 25.0% 'r...@xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx'
>>valid 25.0% 25.0% 'r...@aaa.aaa.aaa.aaa'
>>valid 25.0% 25.0% 'r...@bbb.bbb.bbb.bbb'
>>-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
>>Valid:4 / Leaving:0 / Exiting:0 / Joining:0 / Down:0
>>
>>
>>--
>>Ivaylo Panitchkov
>>Software developer
>>Hibernum Creations Inc.
>>
>>Ce courriel est confidentiel et peut aussi être protégé par la loi.Si vous 
>>avez reçu ce courriel par erreur, veuillez nous en aviser immédiatement en y 
>>répondant, puis supprimer ce message de votre système. Veuillez ne pas le 
>>copier, l’utiliser pour quelque raison que ce soit ni divulguer son contenu à 
>>quiconque.
>>This email is confidential and may also be legally privileged. If you have 
>>received this email in error, please notify us immediately by reply email and 
>>then delete this message from your system. Please do not copy it or use it 
>>for any purpose or disclose its content.
>>
>>
>>\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>>riak-users mailing list
>>riak-users@lists.basho.com
>>http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com



-- 
Joseph Blomstedt 
Software Engineer
Basho Technologies, Inc.
http://www.basho.com/

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

