---
title: "Re: How to enabled a riak-search KV bucket from the erlang library"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-12-14T17:45:22-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01790"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg01787"
author_name: "Bryan Nagle"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-12-14T17:45:22-08:00
---


Hi,

Quick question on this: Does using the code you provided for enabling
search also create the bucket if it does not exist? Does this matter? I
understand the general idea is that you never need to specifically create
buckets, but am wondering if setting the properties on a non-existant bucket
will work. Basically we want to be sure that riak search is enabled for a
bucket before we start putting any K,V's into it.

Bryan Nagle
Liquid Analytics
bryan.na...@liquidanalytics.com


On Tue, Dec 14, 2010 at 2:22 PM, Sean Cribbs  wrote:

> Carson,
>
> Unfortunately the PB interface, as you discovered, doesn't support all the
> bucket properties. You could, however, also use the riak-erlang-http-client
> which has full support for all bucket properties. We realize this is a pain
> point and will be working to improve the PB interface in the near future.
> To enable the precommit hook, do something like this with the HTTP client:
>
> Client = rhc:create(), %% use create/4 if you're not connecting to
> localhost
> rhc:set\_bucket(Client, "my\_bucket", [{<<"precommit">>, [
> {struct, [{<<"mod">>, <<"riak\_search\_kv\_hook">>}, {<<"fun">>,
> <<"precommit">>}]}
> ]}]).
>
> Sean Cribbs 
> Developer Advocate
> Basho Technologies, Inc.
> http://basho.com/
>
> On Dec 14, 2010, at 12:39 PM, carson li wrote:
>
> hey everyone,
>
> i'm trying to figure out if it's possible to enable the precommit hook for
> a riak bucket using the erlang library. i know you can do it from a curl
> statement, or using the "search-cmd install". it also states on the
> pb-client that there's only suport for modifying 2 bucket properties, which
> is n\_val, and allow\_multi.
>
> i was just wondering if you guys know of, or have found any work arounds to
> turn on riak search for a KV bucket. (i'm trying to create a bucket and then
> turn on the indexing from my application)
>
> Please let me know. Thanks in advance.
>
> --
> Carson Li
> Liquid Analytics
> carson...@liquidanalytics.com
> 647-273-1024
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

