---
title: "The Riak Feature Wish List"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-08-05T15:11:00-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04244"
author_name: "Mark Phillips"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-08-05T15:11:00-07:00

---


Hey All

So there has been an elevated amount of discussion of late around
features and functionality that you would like to see in Riak. This is
fantastic, and we love hearing where you want Riak to go and how it
can better suit your various use cases.

To date, there are two avenues for the community to recommend features
and code for Riak:

\* write the code yourself for a given feature and submit a pull request
\* make your thoughts and ideas known in a feature request on issues.basho.com

Based on the recent flurry of activity, we wanted try something a bit
different. We've just created a new page on help.basho.com called "The
Riak Wish List."

https://help.basho.com/categories/20011362-riak-wishlist

Our hope is that this will give the community a forum to:

a) Log, discuss, and discover new feature requests
b) Vote on new and existing feature requests\*
c) Give aspiring contributors a pool of suggestions from which they
can start if they want to get ambitious and write code for Riak

Ultimately we think this will give us a more unified view of what
think you need/want for features. And anything that adds more
transparency to what makes it into Riak is better for every one.

Let us know if you have any questions. I'm looking forward to seeing
this process develop. Keep the suggestions coming.

Thanks for being a part of Riak.

Mark

Community Manager
Basho Technologies
wiki.basho.com
twitter.com/pharkmillups

\* We are not going to be able accommodate all feature requests. But
we'll do our best to prioritize the ones that a) fit with our internal
needs and b) are actually possible given the current architectural
limitations of a system like Riak.

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

