---
title: "Map/Reduce | Link Walking in JAVA-CLIENT"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-03-05T11:53:48-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06877"
author_name: "Rajat Mathur"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-03-05T11:53:48-08:00

---


I am new to Map Reduce Technique. I have been using \*Riak-Java-Client.\*
\*
1.\* I wish to know how can I write my own Map functions and Reduce
Functions for querying. Where they have to be stored if I want to use them
the way \*NamedEralangFucntions/NamedJSFucntions \*are used. How should
reduce functions be written so that they could do aggregation operations on
results provided by map phases.

\*2. \*During Map Reduce phases can we have an \*alternated Filtration and
query process\*, i.e. let's say we want to do index search on 4 indices and
have to take OR or AND of them, then instead of calculating keys for all
indices, can we \*filter objects\* (obtained from querying one of the 2i's )
based on indexes in map reduce.

\*3. \*If we were to query using Link Walk with Map reduce, but partially
i.e. let's say 2 stages of link walk (and since number of links would be
too high for my app after that, I have stored Keys of next bucket instead
of links to them. Is it fine?) and then from that data, filtering out
desired result, how to get it working ?

ex. Lets say each object in the last step of link walk had a list of keys
for next bucket's objects. Now, Is there a way to retrieve the objects of
last bucket[Who's key's list is contained in objects of last step..] by
continuing MapReduce, OR I have to Iterate each object's list attribute and
fetch objects by key ?

Please suggest some place on WWW where I could see more \*CODE \*for
Riak-Java-Client


-- 
\*Rajat Mathur\*
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

