---
title: "How to change existing data from one back-end to another"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-12-12T09:20:15-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05916"
author_name: "Markus Silpala"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-12-12T09:20:15-08:00

---


Greetings again.

Another likely-quick question after my weekend of doco-diving: is there any
trick or are there any steps needed to change an existing cluster from one
back-end to another? Judging by the wiki page for the Multi
back-end it
would appear that one just changes the app.config or PUTs a change to
bucket properties, bounces the node, and riak converts all existing data
automatically. Is it really that simple?

Are there any considerations around rolling updates vs taking downtime to
update the whole cluster? Any concern about large data sets during the
conversion? Is the node available during the conversion? Any gotchas around
when 2i actually becomes usable in the updated bucket?

Okay—only the first question was likely to be quick. :-)

For us it's really unfortunate that we can't use 2i through a Multi
back-end. We don't use either today. We may want to use Multi to cause
certain buckets to expire their data sooner than the rest; but we very
likely want to adopt 2i for certain cases where buckets are related and
other cases where a simple equality- or range-based search will be needed.
Choosing between the two is a real bummer.

Is 2i support through Multi in the plan for future releases?

Thanks again,

-Markus
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

