---
title: "Re: Riak memory usage higher than expected"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-08-17T00:08:08-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04380"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04379"
author_name: "Nico Meyer"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-08-17T00:08:08-07:00
---



Hi Jacques,

please read my reply back in May, which should clear things up:

http://lists.basho.com/pipermail/riak-users\_lists.basho.com/2011-May/004292.html

Cheers,
Nico

On 16.08.2011 21:09, Jacques wrote:

We're utilizing Riak 14.2 and we're seeing higher memory consumption
than we expect.

We're running on a 4 node cluster with each node housing 32gb of memory
and are utilizing bitcask with a 3x write replication factor. We're
seeing faster growth than we expect and also seeing weird bounces update.

You can see an example chart .
 (note, there are sometimes where we've had to stop the job for short
periods of time-- you can see these as flat spots).

We are doing a large throttled import that has key sizes of
approximately 12 bytes. We're currently around 450mm unique items and
riak memory consumption is ~110gb. The input job is probably 95% new
puts and 5% overwriting puts.

According to the capacity planner tools, our key space should probably
be about half what are actual memory consumption is.

As you can see in the chart, we're also seeing jumps in memory size at
random intervals. What might these be? Nothing interesting in the logs
that I can see. Regular merges.

A close up  of a recent jump in
memory consumption for one of the nodes (they all look the same). There
are no corresponding distinct patterns within the cpu chart. Things are
pretty flat although we have more wait sometimes than we like (need more
spindles clearly).


Any helpful thoughts?

Thanks,
Jacques





\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

