---
title: "Re: riaksearch: using index docs in place of real objects"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-05-26T12:42:01-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03440"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg03417"
author_name: "Eric Moritz"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-05-26T12:42:01-07:00
---


Out of curiosity what is the key in this URL?
http://riak.host:8098/riak/\_rsid\_/key

On Thu, May 26, 2011 at 9:42 AM, Mathias Meyer  wrote:
> Greg,
>
> Riak Search stores indexed documents in Riak KV too, as serialized Erlang 
> terms. You can easily verify that by requesting a document from 
> http://riak.host:8098/riak/\_rsid\_/key.
>
> So whenever you query something through the Solr interface the documents you 
> get back are fetched from these buckets, and therefore the same distribution 
> and consistency properties apply to them as to objects stored directly in 
> Riak KV. Bottom line is there's nothing wrong with just using them instead of 
> fetching them again from Riak KV.
>
> Mathias Meyer
> Developer Advocate, Basho Technologies
>
>
> On Mittwoch, 25. Mai 2011 at 00:34, Greg Pascale wrote:
>
>> Hi,
>>
>> In our data model, our riak objects are flat JSON objects, and thus their 
>> corresponding index documents are nearly identical - the only difference is 
>> that a few fields which are ints in the riak objects are strings in the 
>> index doc.
>>
>> Since they are so similar, we are directly using the index docs returned 
>> from our search call, skipping the second step of doing gets on the returned 
>> keys to retrieve the real objects.
>>
>> Is this advisable? Are there any circumstances under which we might run into 
>> consistency issues?
>>
>> Thanks,
>> -Greg
>>
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

