---
title: "Re: Upgrade procedure from 0.12 to 0.13"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-10-13T10:31:11-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01272"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg01270"
author_name: "Alexander Sicular"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-10-13T10:31:11-07:00
---


Well it sounds to me that there are three primary considerations. Riak\_core, 
Riak\_kv and bitcask (assuming you are using that backend). If either of those 
change in some incompatible way you could end up doing damage to your data. I 
dunno, sounds possible to me. That said, rolling upgrades would be ... 
desirable. Personally I would not do it unless Basho said it was kosher.

-Alexander


On Oct 13, 2010, at 1:23 PM, Wilson MacGyver wrote:

> I thought it's possible to do "rolling upgrade". ie, shutdown 1 node,
> upgrade it, and reconnect the
> node to the cluster.
> 
> otherwise you'd need 2X of the nodes in production.
> 
> On Wed, Oct 13, 2010 at 1:21 PM, Alexander Sicular  wrote:
>> I'm pretty sure that Baho would recommend that all nodes in a cluster should 
>> be running the same version. An upgrade would probably require doing a full 
>> database backup and a full database restore on a \*new\* cluster.
>> 
>> -Alexander
>> 
>> On Oct 13, 2010, at 10:06 AM, SKester wrote:
>> 
>>> Hey folks,
>>> 
>>> What is the proper way to upgrade a cluster from 0.12 to 0.13? Our 4 node 
>>> cluster was originally created by installing the 0.12 rpms. Is the process 
>>> as simple as stopping riak on a node, installing the new rpm and 
>>> re-starting? Is it possible to roll through each node one at a time while 
>>> the others are still available, or do all nodes need to be halted and 
>>> upgraded at the same time? I have backed up the /etc/riak directory to 
>>> save the initial config data. Are the 0.12 config files fully compatible 
>>> with 0.13?
>>> 
>>> Thanks,
>>> Scott
>>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>>> riak-users mailing list
>>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>> 
>> 
>> -Alexander Sicular
>> 
>> @siculars
>> 
>> 
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>> 
> 
> 
> 
> -- 
> Omnem crede diem tibi diluxisse supremum.
> 
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com


-Alexander Sicular

@siculars


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

