---
title: "Re: Cluster setup"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-12-10T10:33:32-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg09507"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg09506"
author_name: "Jared Morrow"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-12-10T10:33:32-08:00
---


The init.d script for RIak is included in the RPM. If you list the file
contained in the RPM do you see the init.d/riak script? If you do have
that file, you'll need to add the rc.d scripts by hand to auto-start /
auto-stop on startup / shutdown or use a tool like `chkconfig`
http://linux.die.net/man/8/chkconfig

-Jared


On Mon, Dec 10, 2012 at 11:17 AM, Kevin Burton wrote:

> I did these steps and while I see that Riak has been added to the system
> files (like /etc/riak). I don't see any links to auto start like in init.d.
> Do I add these links manually?
>
>
> On Dec 10, 2012, at 11:32 AM, Jared Morrow  wrote:
>
> If you are looking install and /etc/init.d support, you should really just
> be installing the packages.
> http://s3.amazonaws.com/downloads.basho.com/riak/CURRENT/rhel/6/riak-1.2.1-1.el6.x86\_64.rpmis
> the package for Centos 6 found here
> http://basho.com/resources/downloads/. Building from source is there for
> those who need a feature not currently in a release, want to make additions
> to Riak, or are on an unsupported platform.
>
> -Jared
>
>
> On Mon, Dec 10, 2012 at 10:25 AM,  wrote:
>
>> I am looking at http://docs.basho.com/riak/\*\*latest/cookbooks/Basic-\*\*
>> Cluster-Setup/which
>> provides me with a lot of information. But I have one question. I
>> have a source distribution and I have already done 'make rel'. Once I have
>> performed all of the steps outlined in setting up a cluster how do I make
>> sure that this configuration is restored when the machine reboots. I am
>> assuming that it will involve something with /etc/init.d. Is there
>> something like 'make install' that would shorten the process? How is the
>> cluster information persisted so that each node will join the cluster when
>> the respective machine comes up after a reboot? Thank you.
>>
>>
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\*\*\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/\*\*mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_\*\*lists.basho.com
>>
>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

