---
title: "Re: riak-erlang-client"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-01-07T15:38:54-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01920"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg01919"
author_name: "Dan Reverri"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-01-07T15:38:54-08:00
---


Hi Anthony,

Would you mind sending a pull request for the documentation updates without
the protobuffs changes?

Regarding the protobuffs changes, it would be best to apply the changes to a
fork of the basho/erlang\_protobuffs repository and send a pull request.

Regarding the buckets, they should be specified as binaries. I'll fix that
now.

Thanks,
Dan

Daniel Reverri
Developer Advocate
Basho Technologies, Inc.
d...@basho.com


On Fri, Jan 7, 2011 at 3:17 PM, Anthony Molinaro <
antho...@alumni.caltech.edu> wrote:

> Hi,
>
> I recently forked riak-erlang-client to use the mainline erlang\_protobuffs
> (or at least a fork of it). In case any users out there are interested
> here they are.
>
> https://github.com/djnym/riak-erlang-client
> https://github.com/djnym/erlang\_protobuffs
>
> So far they work great for me, and allow me to get the newly available
> features
> of erlang\_protobuffs.
>
> I was also noticing some inconsistencies in the documentation of the client
> which I fixed up (mostly that the put option is return\_body, not
> returnbody),
> but also made a few other parts more consistent.
>
> However, I did notice one annoyance with the API which I was curious about.
> For almost every example the bucket is passed as a binary, except for those
> in the Bucket Properties section, where the bucket is passed as a string.
> Is there a reason to not just make the riakc\_pb\_socket:get\_bucket/2 and
> riakc\_pb\_socket:set\_bucket/3 calls take a binary like all the other calls?
>
> Just wondering,
>
> -Anthony
>
> --
> ------------------------------------------------------------------------
> Anthony Molinaro 
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

