---
title: "Re: LevelDB read performance"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-07-26T15:39:39-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08092"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg08088"
author_name: "John D. Rowell"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-07-26T15:39:39-07:00
---


Why not push the data (or references to it) to a queue (e.g. RabbitMQ) and
then run single-threaded consumers that work well with PBC? That would also
decouple the processes and allow you to scale them independently.

-jd

2012/7/26 Parnell Springmeyer 

> I'm using Riak in a 5 node cluster with LevelDB for the backend (we store
> A LOT of archivable data) on FreeBSD.
>
> The data is mapped out as follows: I have a set of database objects that
> are closely linked to user accounts - I needed to be able to compose
> complex queries on these objects including joins with the user data; so it
> made sense to keep those objects in MySQL.
>
> I have software that takes those database objects and produces DAILY stats
> for each object (so we have months/years of data for each database object).
> These stats are what we store in Riak.
>
> Now, that application also updates the MySQL database object with the key
> under which the stat object is stored in Riak for quick and easy compiling
> of the "latest" data (since it's just a GET operation and not a M/R job).
>
> Mashing up this data for small sets of MySQL database objects is quick and
> painless. But once it starts approaching > 1000 objects I notice it slows
> to a crawl and i notice Riak being pegged pretty hard (IOW it is Riak's
> response).
>
> Now; here's the issue: with my web application I haven't figured out how
> to use the RiakPBC connector - so we are going through the HTTP API. I have
> a feeling this is where that bottle neck is occurring.
>
> Why do you ask? Because our Python web app is multi-threaded and the PBC
> sockets don't play nice here. I'm not finding my experiments to solve this
> very successful. So I wanted to ask the greater community if anyone HAS or
> is willing to HELP me solve it!
>
> Thanks :)
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

