---
title: "Re: [ANN] Riak Release 0.11.0"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-06-09T13:48:04-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00546"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg00545"
author_name: "Jason J. W. Williams"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-06-09T13:48:04-07:00
---


Hi David,

Thank you for responding. On a separate note, will there be any way to
make Riak rack-aware for data distribution?

It's concerning for removing nodes that you can't guarantee there
aren't at least 2 out of 3/4 copies on different nodes.

-J

On Wed, Jun 9, 2010 at 2:21 PM, David Smith  wrote:
> Jason,
> Our testing has shown bitcask to have as good recovery as DETS (the previous
> default backend), and MUCH better overall performance. However, I'm going to
> stop short of saying definitively that the recovery of bitcask is as good
> as/better than innostore, simply because we don't have enough data to
> support it...yet. :)
> I will say, however, that the append-only nature of bitcask minimizes the
> opportunity to lose and/or corrupt data, not to mention obviating the need
> for log files ala InnoDB.
> D.
>
> On Wed, Jun 9, 2010 at 1:59 PM, Jason J. W. Williams
>  wrote:
>>
>> Does the bitcask back end handle crash recovery as well as the
>> InnoStore backend?
>>
>> -J
>>
>> On Wed, Jun 9, 2010 at 1:55 PM, Jon Meredith  wrote:
>> > Hello, Riak users.  We are excited to announce the release of Riak
>> > version
>> > 0.11.
>> >
>> > Pre-built installations and source tarballs are available at:
>> > http://downloads.basho.com/
>> >
>> > Release notes are at (also copied below):
>> > http://downloads.basho.com/riak/riak-0.11/riak-0.11.0.txt
>> >
>> > IMPORTANT: If you are upgrading an existing Riak cluster, please read
>> > the
>> > transition document at
>> > http://bitbucket.org/basho/riak/src/4235ceeb8d6/TRANSITION
>> >
>> > Cheers,
>> > The Basho Riak Team
>> >
>> > -------------------------
>> > Riak 0.11.0 Release Notes
>> > -------------------------
>> >
>> > Bitcask has arrived as the new default backend for Riak.  Bitcask is
>> > Basho's
>> > new key/value store that should provide good balanced performance out
>> > of the box on most systems.  Read more about it from the initial
>> > announcement here http://blog.basho.com/2010/04/27/hello,-bitcask/
>> >
>> > Users that wish to upgrade from another backend will need to backup
>> > their
>> > cluster (using riak-admin) before changing the backend in app.config,
>> > restart
>> > riak and restore from the backup into bitcask.
>> >
>> > The protocol buffers client (PBC) interface has been enhanced to
>> > add map/reduce support and access to simple bucket properties.  The
>> > erlang and python clients have been updated accordingly.
>> >
>> > Put operations using the local erlang client that request a returnbody
>> > have received a performance enhancement.  Internally the put operation
>> > now returns the body directly, so an additional get is no longer
>> > required.  The PBC and HTTP interfaces have been updated to use
>> > this new mechanism.
>> >
>> > Enhancements
>> > --------
>> >  58 - provide default content-type of application/octet-stream if none
>> >        present in the object.
>> >  74 - create ring directory if non-existant
>> > 142 - riak-admin leave restored
>> >
>> > Bugs Fixed
>> > ----------
>> >  35 - {error, blah} messages are now passed on to javascript map/reduce
>> > jobs
>> > 104 - missing bucket/key into map/reduce job crashed it. Fixed.
>> > 193 - list keys sometimes uses downed nodes. Fixed.
>> > 208 - deleting a key with a post-commit hook set crashed riak. Fixed.
>> >
>> >
>> > \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> > riak-users mailing list
>> > riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> > http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>> >
>>
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

