---
title: "Re: Range Loop Timeout Error after (after disk space over limit)"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-07-18T10:03:00-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07986"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg07959"
author_name: "Arnaud Wetzel"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-07-18T10:03:00-07:00
---


Ryan,
Increasing "ulimit -n" (current value is 4096, I have tested from 1024 to
200000) does not change anything, always the same errors :
{timeout,range\_loop}
lookup/range failure:
{{badfun,#Fun},[{mi\_server,iterate,6},{mi\_server,lookup,8}]}

I cannot find the command "repair" that you talk about in your email (on
riak1.2.0-rc1), is it a function directly in an erlang module and not
accessible yet with riak-admin ?

Thank you very much.

-- 
Arnaud Wetzel
KBRW Ad-Venture
13 rue st Anastase, 75003 Paris

2012/7/16 Ryan Zezeski 

> Arnaud,
>
> The 'stream\_timeout' and 'emfile' should be correlated. Whenever you see
> the 'emfile' you should see a corresponding timeout. The index server
> errors causing the result collector to timeout later. First, adjust your
> file descriptor limit and then go from there.
>
> For the 1.2 release a "repair" command has been added to rebuild KV or
> index data for a given partition. In releases before that you must reindex
> all your data. You don't have to worry about removing the current indexes
> as merge index will garbage collect that for you as it merges. As I said,
> first I would fix the 'emfile' issue and then see if further action is
> needed.
>
> -Z
>
> P.S. If you want to be absolutely sure what your FD limit is in Riak you
> can `riak attach` and then `os:cmd("ulimit -n").` Make sure to use Ctrl-D
> to exit from the Riak shell.
>
> On Mon, Jul 16, 2012 at 5:21 AM, Arnaud Wetzel wrote:
>
>> Hi,
>> Friday evening one of our riak node has reach his disk space limit during
>> indexing in riak-search. Then after adding some nodes, some requests fail,
>> and it is impossible to find the correlation between requests with error or
>> those who succeed.
>> The errors are :
>>
>> {{nocatch,stream\_timeout},[{riak\_search\_op\_utils,gather\_stream\_results,4}]}
>> {timeout,range\_loop}
>>
>> and sometimes (not always) :
>>
>> {{badmatch,{error,emfile}},[{mi\_segment,iterate\_by\_keyinfo,7},{mi\_server,'-lookup/8-lc$^1/1-1-',4},{mi\_server,'-lookup/8-lc$^1/1-1-',4},{mi\_server,lookup,8}]}
>>
>> So anyone else has experienced these errors ? Is it possible that they
>> come from the disk over limit error ? How can I try to repair merge index
>> data ? If it is not possible, what is the good process to delete entirely
>> all the indexes (only indexes, keeping riak datas).
>>
>> Thank you very much.
>>
>> Regards.
>>
>> --
>> Arnaud Wetzel
>> KBRW Ad-Venture
>> 13 rue st Anastase, 75003 Paris
>>
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>
>>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

