---
title: "Re: Riak Java Client"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-02-19T10:29:42-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg02390"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg02378"
author_name: "Russell Brown"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-02-19T10:29:42-08:00
---



On 18 Feb 2011, at 23:20, Wilson MacGyver wrote:

> We use the java client, mostly in groovy. In terms of wish list
> 
> 1: Protocol buffer support, this is addressed in the 0.14 version.
> 
> 2: make the httpconnection max client setting work. I couldn't get this to 
> work
> no matter what I do. It always only open 1 connection.

I have a fix for this. You can see it (roughly) here.
https://github.com/russelldb/riak-java-client/commit/9b0e837a6a4492d9d27610866fa342278d5fac98

Although it is badly formatted so I haven't put a pull request in yet, it will 
be addressed very soon. 

> 
> 3: support no-data flag. I noticed in python client, you can pass a
> no-data returned
> flag when doing a PUT to riak. I can't find the same thing in java.
> This would be
> very useful in bulk upload situation.

Sounds extremely doable, and in short order. 

> 
> 4: it'd be nice if we can write map/reduce functions in groovy. :)

Requires more thought but it is well worth thinking about. Thanks for all these 
and keep them coming. 

> 
> On Wed, Feb 16, 2011 at 10:22 PM, David Smith  wrote:
>> We're also working on putting together a comparison with the Ripple
>> API (h/t to Sean) and using that to improve/expand the Java API
>> accordingly. The intent is that all APIs should be idiomatic to
>> languages, so it won't be a straight port necessarily.
>> 
>> Short answer -- we're working on it and would love your input. :)
> 
> -- 
> Omnem crede diem tibi diluxisse supremum.
> 
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

On 19 Feb 2011, at 14:59, Russell Brown wrote:

> 
> On 18 Feb 2011, at 23:20, Wilson MacGyver wrote:
> 
>> We use the java client, mostly in groovy. In terms of wish list
>> 
>> 1: Protocol buffer support, this is addressed in the 0.14 version.
>> 
>> 2: make the httpconnection max client setting work. I couldn't get this to 
>> work
>> no matter what I do. It always only open 1 connection.
> 
> I have a fix for this. You can see it (roughly) here.
> https://github.com/russelldb/riak-java-client/commit/9b0e837a6a4492d9d27610866fa342278d5fac98
> 
> Although it is badly formatted so I haven't put a pull request in yet, it 
> will be addressed very soon. 
> 
>> 
>> 3: support no-data flag. I noticed in python client, you can pass a
>> no-data returned
>> flag when doing a PUT to riak. I can't find the same thing in java.
>> This would be
>> very useful in bulk upload situation.
> 
> Sounds extremely doable in short order. 
> 
>> 
>> 4: it'd be nice if we can write map/reduce functions in groovy. :)
> 
> Requires more thought but it is well worth thinking about. Thanks for all 
> these and keep them coming. 
> 
>> 
>> On Wed, Feb 16, 2011 at 10:22 PM, David Smith  wrote:
>>> We're also working on putting together a comparison with the Ripple
>>> API (h/t to Sean) and using that to improve/expand the Java API
>>> accordingly. The intent is that all APIs should be idiomatic to
>>> languages, so it won't be a straight port necessarily.
>>> 
>>> Short answer -- we're working on it and would love your input. :)
>> 
>> -- 
>> Omnem crede diem tibi diluxisse supremum.
>> 
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> 

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

