---
title: "Re: RiakSearch solr multiply file Submit ?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-10-31T08:22:21-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01426"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg01424"
author_name: "Rusty Klophaus"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-10-31T08:22:21-07:00
---


Hi Prometheus,

Can you tell me the exact error that it gives?

Wildcard matching should work as follows (taken from the library
documentation):

The wildcard string looks like an ordinary filename, except that certain
"wildcard characters" are interpreted in a special way. The following
characters are special:

?
Matches one character.

\*
Matches any number of characters up to the end of the filename, the next
dot, or the next slash.

{Item,...}
Alternation. Matches one of the alternatives.
Other characters represent themselves. Only filenames that have exactly the
same character in the same position will match. (Matching is case-sensitive;
i.e. "a" will not match "A").

Best,
Rusty

On Sun, Oct 31, 2010 at 11:18 AM, Prometheus WillSurvive <
prometheus.willsurv...@gmail.com> wrote:

> Hi Rusty ,
>
> Thanks
>
> I already tried. :) but it give error and trying to teach me sytnax as in
> help :)
>
> It is accepting : bin/search-cmd solr testwiki /root/DATA/output/
>
> but gives error for :
>
> bin/search-cmd solr testwiki /root/DATA/output/\*.xml
>
> As you aware We are trying to do some benchmark test on riaksearch. We
> have customers have billions of doc. Working with current lucene / Solr is a
> operational nightmare ( yes it is).
>
> So we are looking for a replacement for those customers. This is why we are
> one of the early tester of the RiakSearch.
>
> Best Regards
>
> Prometheus
>
>
> On Oct 31, 2010, at 5:12 PM, Rusty Klophaus wrote:
>
> Hi Prometheus,
>
> Yes, you can either put the files into a directory and then provide a
> command line pointing to the directory, ie:
>
> bin/search-cmd solr index path/to/directory
>
> Or you can specify a wildcard using '\*':
>
> bin/search-cmd solr index path/to/directory/\*.xml
>
> Best,
> Rusty
>
>
> On Sat, Oct 30, 2010 at 4:10 PM, Prometheus WillSurvive <
> prometheus.willsurv...@gmail.com> wrote:
>
>> Hi ,
>>
>> Is there anyway to submit more than one file in :
>>
>> "search-cmd solr INDEX abc.xml ? "
>>
>> it is not accepting \*.xml or 1.xml 2.xml in the same command line..
>>
>> thanks
>>
>> Prometheus
>>
>>
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>
>
>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

