---
title: "Re: Structured data"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-08-03T07:36:42-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00832"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg00831"
author_name: "Curtis Caravone"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-08-03T07:36:42-07:00
---


Riak is not aware of the data types. It just presents a list of values to
the client for conflict resolution.

Curtis

On Tue, Aug 3, 2010 at 7:15 AM, James Sadler  wrote:

> Hi Dmitry,
>
> Being able to represent any Erlang term is a good start.
>
> Which leads me to Riak's conflict resolution. Does this part of Riak
> understand the data types or does it just present the N alternative
> values for a key to the client when there is a conflict?
>
> There is potential for some semi-automated merging to be done
> server-side in the case where values have richer semantics. I suspect
> that it would depend on the application, and the client would need to
> tell Riak it's OK to perform an automatic merge on write.
>
> On 3 August 2010 23:59, Dmitry Demeshchuk  wrote:
> > Hi, James.
> >
> > Actually, Riak can store all Erlang terms: lists, tuples, numbers,
> > binaries, etc.
> >
> > But if you use, for example, PHP or Python, you can just use your own
> > serialization format. So there are no problems here for any other
> > languages as well.
> >
> > On Tue, Aug 3, 2010 at 5:47 PM, James Sadler 
> wrote:
> >> Hi guys,
> >>
> >> Is there any plan for supporting more than opaque blobs as values in
> >> the future? For example, lists, sets, hashes etc, including
> >> server-side support for operating on those data-types?
> >>
> >> In the meantime, I am curious about the feasibility of putting
> >> riak\_core in front of Redis, and supporting a richer API in the layers
> >> above (which I suspect would need to be heavily modified to support
> >> additional value manipulation functionality).
> >>
> >> Also, is anyone aware of anyone attempting such a project?
> >>
> >> Cheers,
> >>
> >> --
> >> James
> >>
> >> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> >> riak-users mailing list
> >> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> >> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> >>
> >
> >
> >
> > --
> > Best regards,
> > Dmitry Demeshchuk
> >
>
>
>
> --
> James
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

