---
title: "Re: Riak for eCommerce"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-01-20T21:35:44-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06348"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06337"
author_name: "Ahmed Al-Saadi"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-01-20T21:35:44-08:00
---


Would it then be accurate to rephrase your statement by saying that data 
durability is guaranteed (specifically when dw>=1), but that reporting this 
durability is not? 

-- 
Ahmed Al-Saadi
Sent with Sparrow (http://www.sparrowmailapp.com/?sig)


On Friday, January 20, 2012 at 1:09 PM, Sean Cribbs wrote:

> Be aware that the client quorums are only a restriction on what the client 
> will wait for. It is entirely possible for a write to succeed in the larger 
> case, but not meet the W/DW quorum requirements. That is, the request may 
> "fail" but the write may still occur.
> 
> On Fri, Jan 20, 2012 at 10:01 AM, Dmitry Demeshchuk  (mailto:demeshc...@gmail.com)> wrote:
> > Generally, using eventually consistent databases for e-commerce sounds
> > too risky.
> > 
> > But I know that there was some e-commerce stealth startup using Riak
> > for their needs (probably not for all the data though, I don't know
> > any details). Amazon uses Dynamo, which is quite similar to Riak. So
> > NoSQL can be used in this niche somehow.
> > 
> > Also, intuitively, most of the consistency problems might be avoided
> > by setting all w/dw values to maximum (better set r to maximum too, of
> > course).
> > 
> > The hardest task I see here is to organize transactions for the cases
> > like "we remove a product from database and we should alter all the
> > orders that contain this product".
> > 
> > On Fri, Jan 20, 2012 at 5:43 PM, Ahmed Al-Saadi  > (mailto:thaterlang...@gmail.com)> wrote:
> > > Hello:
> > >
> > > After reviewing a few options in the NoSQL space, I am considering using
> > > Riak for an e-commerce platform. I gather that atomicity (transactions) is
> > > not supported while durability can be enforced per request (using dw=1 or,
> > > at least, w=?). In other words, for most non-critical
> > > reads/writes, r/w can be optimized for availability while critical writes
> > > must be committed to disk (or to "enough" nodes?), sacrificing 
> > > availability
> > > in the process.
> > >
> > > Does this describe the state-of-affairs or am I missing something?
> > >
> > > --
> > > Ahmed Al-Saadi
> > > Sent with Sparrow
> > >
> > >
> > > \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> > > riak-users mailing list
> > > riak-users@lists.basho.com (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
> > > http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> > >
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > --
> > Best regards,
> > Dmitry Demeshchuk
> > 
> > \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> > riak-users mailing list
> > riak-users@lists.basho.com (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
> > http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> 
> 
> 
> -- 
> Sean Cribbs 
> Software Engineer
> Basho Technologies, Inc.
> http://basho.com/
> 

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

