---
title: "Re: Delete bucket?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-07-28T14:12:04-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04122"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04119"
author_name: "Jonathan Langevin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-07-28T14:12:04-07:00
---


Ah, nice. Checked the js client, which mentioned that ?keys=stream is a
valid option to result in streamed key listings.
I'll get that implemented in my PHP client, thanks for the pointer :-)
\*


Jonathan Langevin
Systems Administrator
Loom Inc.
Wilmington, NC: (910) 241-0433 - jlange...@loomlearning.com -
www.loomlearning.com - Skype: intel352
\*


On Thu, Jul 28, 2011 at 4:42 PM, Jeremiah Peschka <
jeremiah.pesc...@gmail.com> wrote:

> Depending on the client you're using, you can perform results streaming to
> pull back results and process them in chunks rather than waiting for a
> buffer to get filled.
>
> It's easy enough to write something like this using Ripple or
> CorrugatedIron. I'm guessing it's possible with other clients.
> ---
> Jeremiah Peschka
> Founder, Brent Ozar PLF, LLC
>
> On Jul 28, 2011, at 1:40 PM, Jonathan Langevin wrote:
>
> > I've read on the wiki that to delete a bucket, the only method is to
> manually delete all keys within the bucket.
> > So then what is the recommended process for deleting all keys within a
> bucket, manually?
> >
> > I was initially just listing all keys within a bucket, and then iterating
> the keys to send delete requests, but I hit a wall when I had too many keys
> to get back in a list request (received header too large errors).
> >
> > So I assume the alternative would be to run a mapreduce to pull keys from
> the bucket with a specified limit, to then execute the deletes?
> > While that's fine for an "active record" style environment (where there
> may be cleanup actions that must occur per object being deleted), is there
> another method for deleting all keys within a bucket, massively? (Maybe via
> a map call?)
> >
> >
> > Jonathan Langevin
> > Systems Administrator
> > Loom Inc.
> > Wilmington, NC: (910) 241-0433 - jlange...@loomlearning.com -
> www.loomlearning.com - Skype: intel352
> >
> > \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> > riak-users mailing list
> > riak-users@lists.basho.com
> > http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

