---
title: "Re: How to change existing data from one back-end to another"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-12-12T14:29:30-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05925"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg05916"
author_name: "Ryan Zezeski"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-12-12T14:29:30-08:00
---


Markus,

Riak will \_not\_ automatically convert the data for you. If you change the
backend and bounce the node that node will no longer see the data and it
has no notion of converting data from another backend. Remember, you are
simply changing a value in the config file. Riak is not aware that you
were once using another backend and that your intention is to migrate the
data. Riak does not pretend to be smart in that regard and that's probably
a good thing as some people may change backends with the intention of \_not\_
migrating data. What would happen is that the one node would be using a new
backend with no data while the other nodes would still be using the old
backend with it's current data. As data is read Riak would notice the
missing data on the new backend and performed read repair. You could take
advantage of this and "migrate" data by performing a streaming list keys +
GET to read repair all data. However, down that road lies madness.

I see two ways to go about this:

1) Do a rolling backup/stop/change config/start/restore.

2) Join new nodes using new backend, let claim and handoffs move data over,
then leave nodes using old backend.

I like the first method because it doesn't require join/leave which can
cause massive partition shifts with the current default claim algorithm.
 The second method is easier to execute but requires at least one
additional machine and use of the new claim algorithm.

There is an outstanding pull request for 2i/multi back-end support [1].

-Ryan

[1]: https://github.com/basho/riak\_kv/pull/258

On Mon, Dec 12, 2011 at 12:19 PM, Markus Silpala  wrote:

> Greetings again.
>
> Another likely-quick question after my weekend of doco-diving: is there
> any trick or are there any steps needed to change an existing cluster from
> one back-end to another? Judging by the wiki page for the Multi 
> back-end it
> would appear that one just changes the app.config or PUTs a change to
> bucket properties, bounces the node, and riak converts all existing data
> automatically. Is it really that simple?
>

> Are there any considerations around rolling updates vs taking downtime to
> update the whole cluster? Any concern about large data sets during the
> conversion? Is the node available during the conversion? Any gotchas around
> when 2i actually becomes usable in the updated bucket?
>
> Okay—only the first question was likely to be quick. :-)
>
> For us it's really unfortunate that we can't use 2i through a Multi
> back-end. We don't use either today. We may want to use Multi to cause
> certain buckets to expire their data sooner than the rest; but we very
> likely want to adopt 2i for certain cases where buckets are related and
> other cases where a simple equality- or range-based search will be needed.
> Choosing between the two is a real bummer.
>
> Is 2i support through Multi in the plan for future releases?
>
> Thanks again,
>
> -Markus
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

