---
title: "Newbie question 1/3"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-01-08T21:30:52-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06171"
author_name: "John DeTreville"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-01-08T21:30:52-08:00

---


(An earlier post seems not to have gone through. My apologies in the eventual 
case of a duplicate.)

I'm thinking of using Riak to replace a large Oracle system, and I'm trying to 
understand its guarantees. I have a few introductory questions; this is the 
first of three.

I'm trying to understand the reliability of stored data. Imagine (for example) 
that I have 5 Riak hosts, and an n\_val of 3. Imagine that each host is down 1% 
of the time (I bought the disks at a flood sale), and imagine that host 
failures are uncorrelated, and imagine that when hosts come back up, they stay 
up long enough to fully rejoin the service, and imagine that I haven't done any 
writes for a long while.

Given these assumptions, I might naïvely assume that my data are available with 
a probability of about 99.999%, or down about 5 minutes a year. This would be 
great (perhaps). Of course, this ignores the possibility that some of my data 
may not be replicated at all, perhaps even with all three copies on the same 
host. If all I know is that some data may not be replicated, then all I know is 
that (some of) my data may be unavailable as much as 3.65 days a year, which 
would not be nearly as great. I understand things probably won't be this bad, 
but "probably" isn't a probability.

Is this right? Is there anything I can do to guarantee higher reliability, 
short of setting n\_val to 5?

Cheers,
John
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

