---
title: "Riak Recap for Dec. 15 - 16"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-12-17T16:04:51-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01821"
author_name: "Mark Phillips"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-12-17T16:04:51-08:00

---


Afternoon, Evening, Morning to all,

Short Recap for today. Enjoy and have a great weekend.

Mark

Community Manager
Basho Technologies
wiki.basho.com
twitter.com/pharkmillups

----

Riak Recap for Dec. 15 - 16

1) Q --- When we write a datum to a cluster with N=3, does Riak write
the 3 nodes synchronized? or just write to a single node then gossip
the change to the other two nodes asynchronously? (from
PogoEng-danielwu via #riak)

 A --- Riak will replicate that datum to 3 separate partitions on the ring.

See "Replication" here --->
http://wiki.basho.com/display/RIAK/An+Introduction+to+Riak#AnIntroductiontoRiak-Clustering

2) Q --- Can someone explain the difference between 'node\_puts' and
'node\_puts\_total'? (from prsn via #riak)

 A --- 'node\_puts' are 1 minute stats.

3) Q --- I'm using the Java client, and the RequestMeta class has a
'dw' (durable writes) option in addition to w, but I can't find
anything about it on the wiki. What is it? Is it okay to set it to 0?
(from prsn via #riak)

 A --- 'DW' = the minimum number of nodes that must respond with
success after durably storing the object for the write to be
considered successful. The default is currently set on the server at 0
so, yes, it's ok to do that.

4) Q --- I've noticed that when I run benchmarks against 4 machines
and the benchmark is running on machine 1 and is also the owner, that
instance runs harder than the others. Is that normal?

 A -- Yes. You should run your benchmark driver on a separate machine.

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

