---
title: "Re: Luwak EOL"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-12-19T16:50:37-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06002"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06001"
author_name: "francisco treacy"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-12-19T16:50:37-08:00
---


I can't say I'm thrilled to hear this. We use Luwak extensively.

> While the idea of Luwak was interesting, we ultimately decided that it
> wasn’t the architectural path we wanted to pursue for storing larger
> values in Riak.

Does this mean there is still an intention to support storing larger
values in Riak in the future?

Thanks,
Francisco


2011/12/19 David Smith :
> Hi all,
> I wanted to take a moment and let the community-at-large know that we
> are going to end-of-life the Luwak functionality in Riak, as part of
> our 1.1 release in February. This simply means that the Luwak repo on
> Github will not be actively developed/supported by Basho, or included
> as a default Riak dependency. In keeping with our commitment to Open
> Source, the code will still be available if someone else wants to
> develop on it. You can also continue to use it with Riak if you are
> willing to edit the deps and compile from source -- the Luwak README
> will contain information on how to do this.
> While the idea of Luwak was interesting, we ultimately decided that it
> wasn’t the architectural path we wanted to pursue for storing larger
> values in Riak. If Luwak is a piece of your Riak deployment, we’d love
> to hear from you and incorporate your feedback into future directions.
> Please don’t hesitate to reach out to myself or Mark Phillips.
> Thanks,
> D.
> --
> Dave Smith
> Director, Engineering
> Basho Technologies, Inc.
> diz...@basho.com
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

