---
title: "Re: ripple: uninitialized constant ManyLinkProxy"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-05-28T14:15:40-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00457"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg00456"
author_name: "Sean Cribbs"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-05-28T14:15:40-07:00
---


When I say "embedded associations", I mean the association's target class is an 
EmbeddedDocument. I know for certain that Adam Hunter, who did most of the work 
for those, is using them in his application.

At this point I don't have an estimate for when it will be ready to use, but 
given the upcoming holiday weekend, I plan to carve out some time to update the 
library.

In the meantime, yes you could use links on the underlying RObject, but it'll 
be a little bit fiddly.

Sean Cribbs 
Developer Advocate
Basho Technologies, Inc.
http://basho.com/

On May 28, 2010, at 5:07 PM, francisco treacy wrote:

> Thanks for the prompt reply, Sean.
> 
> What do you mean by "embedded associations"? How do you create those?
> For the moment I'll work with with "property :items, Array, :default => [] ".
> 
> As links are quite essential to work with Riak, do you have an
> estimation when this functionality will be ready for use?
> 
> Maybe a workaround is using links in the underlying RObject, although
> it's a Document protected instance method.
> 
> Francisco
> 
> 
> 2010/5/28 Sean Cribbs :
>> Francisco,
>> 
>> I'm sorry this didn't make it around to you yet (I think it was in the recap 
>> a few days ago). The associations feature is incomplete and thus only 
>> embedded associations work. I might change it to raise a 
>> NotImplementedError until they are.
>> 
>> Sean Cribbs 
>> Developer Advocate
>> Basho Technologies, Inc.
>> http://basho.com/
>> 
>> On May 28, 2010, at 4:09 PM, francisco treacy wrote:
>> 
>>> I am having an issue with Ripple:
>>> 
>>> $ rails c
>>> ruby-1.9.1-p378 > user = User.find('francisco.tre...@gmail.com')
>>> [...]
>>> ruby-1.9.1-p378 > user.books
>>> NameError: uninitialized constant 
>>> Ripple::Document::Associations::ManyLinkProxy
>>> from 
>>> /Users/ftreacy/.rvm/gems/ruby-1.9.1-p378/gems/activesupport-3.0.0.beta3/lib/active\_support/inflector/methods.rb:114:in
>>> `block in constantize'
>>> from 
>>> /Users/ftreacy/.rvm/gems/ruby-1.9.1-p378/gems/activesupport-3.0.0.beta3/lib/active\_support/inflector/methods.rb:113:in
>>> `each'
>>> 
>>> when accessing a one-to-many association.
>>> 
>>> Am I doing something wrong or it looks like a bug?
>>> 
>>> This is the class:
>>> 
>>> class User
>>> include Ripple::Document
>>> 
>>> property :name, String
>>> property :email, String, :presence => true
>>> property :password, String
>>> property :password\_confirmation, String
>>> property :confirmation\_sent\_at, Time
>>> 
>>> many :books
>>> 
>>> timestamps!
>>> 
>>> def key
>>> email
>>> end
>>> 
>>> def id
>>> email
>>> end
>>> 
>>> end
>>> 
>>> Using:
>>> gem 'rails', '3.0.0.beta3'
>>> gem "ripple", "0.7.0"
>>> 
>>> Thanks,
>>> Francisco
>>> 
>>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>>> riak-users mailing list
>>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>> 
>> 


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

