---
title: "Riak Feature Request Forum now live (and working!)"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-10-07T01:58:24-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05092"
author_name: "Mark Phillips"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-10-07T01:58:24-07:00

---


Hi All -

About two months ago I informed the mailing list that we had put an
app in place to help us better track feature requests and ideas for
Riak[1]. Readers of that thread will note that the initiative was
short lived (as I failed to investigate Zendesk's abilities deep
enough).

I'm happy to report that we now have a working solution!

http://features.basho.com

Keen observers will notice that we are still using Zendesk, but this
is a stripped down version that we think will serve our purpose quite
well. As I mentioned in the original email, our hope is that this
will give the community a unified forum to:

a) Log, discuss, and discover new feature requests
b) Vote on new and existing feature requests
c) Give aspiring contributors a pool of suggestions from which they
can start if they want to get ambitious and write code for Riak

I've gone through the mailing list and attempted to pull out features
that people have already requested (but I've undoubtedly missed some).
I'll also be digging through issues.basho.com for anything that should
have a home in this forum.

We'll be making changes and tweaking this as we go, but I think this
is a great start. Let us know if you have any questions, comments, or
concerns.

Thanks for being a part of Riak. Looking forward to where we take this.

Mark

Community Manager

1 - 
http://lists.basho.com/pipermail/riak-users\_lists.basho.com/2011-August/005141.html

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

