---
title: "Re: Innostore question"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-04-15T07:27:28-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00048"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg00047"
author_name: "Nguyen Kien Trung"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-04-15T07:27:28-07:00
---


Solved. The "-smp enabled" did the trick...

Many thanks, Sean!!!

On Thu, Apr 15, 2010 at 9:19 PM, Sean Cribbs  wrote:

> Nguyen,
>
> If you haven't figured this out yet, make sure to put "-smp enabled" in the
> vm.args file and then let us know how it works out. Innostore will not work
> on a non-SMP Erlang VM.
>
> Sean Cribbs 
> Developer Advocate
> Basho Technologies, Inc.
> http://basho.com/
>
> On Apr 14, 2010, at 9:34 AM, Nguyen Kien Trung wrote:
>
> I'll try and let you know. I was running Riak on a UbuntujLinux Image on
> VirutalBox. Not sure it makes any difference.
>
> On Tue, Apr 13, 2010 at 3:01 AM, Sean Cribbs  wrote:
>
>> Nguyen,
>>
>> Sorry for the delay in responding. I've tried your configuration and I
>> can't reproduce the error. Can you try again with a clean installation and
>> let us know?
>>
>> Sean Cribbs 
>> Developer Advocate
>> Basho Technologies, Inc.
>> http://basho.com/
>>
>> On Apr 8, 2010, at 9:25 AM, Nguyen Kien Trung wrote:
>>
>> I've encountered this error:
>>
>>
>> =INFO REPORT==== 7-Apr-2010::21:04:24 ===
>> Spidermonkey VM host starting (<0.112.0>)
>> Eshell V5.7.5 (abort with ^G)
>> (r...@127.0.0.1)1>
>> =ERROR REPORT==== 7-Apr-2010::21:05:20 ===
>> Skipping config setting included\_applications; unknown option.
>> InnoDB: Mutexes and rw\_locks use GCC atomic builtins
>> 100407 21:05:20 InnoDB: highest supported file format is Barracuda.
>> 100407 21:05:20 Embedded InnoDB 1.0.6.6750 started; log sequence number 56874
>>
>> And after that, i was unable to invoke http://localhost:8098/riak/test
>>
>> Not sure what cause this but it works fine with DTS or ETS backend.
>>
>> Here's my app.config
>>
>>
>> %% -\*- mode: erlang -\*-
>> [
>> %% Riak config
>> {riak, [
>> %% storage\_backend specifies the Erlang module defining the storage 
>> mechanism
>> %% that will be used on this node.
>> %% {storage\_backend, riak\_dets\_backend},
>> {storage\_backend, innostore\_riak},
>>
>> %% Different storage backends can use other configuration 
>> variables. For
>> %% instance, riak\_dets\_backend\_root determines the directory under 
>> which
>> %% dets files will be placed.
>> %% {riak\_dets\_backend\_root, "data/dets"},
>>
>> %% Default location of ringstate
>> {ring\_state\_dir, "data/ring"},
>>
>> %% riak\_web\_ip is the IP address that Riak's HTTP interface will 
>> bind to.
>> %% If this is undefined, the HTTP interface will not run.
>> {riak\_web\_ip, "0.0.0.0"},
>>
>> %% riak\_web\_port is the TCP port that Riak's HTTP interface will 
>> bind to.
>> {riak\_web\_port, 8098},
>>
>> %% riak\_handoff\_port is the TCP port that Riak uses for 
>> intra-cluster
>> %% data handoff.
>> {riak\_handoff\_port, 8099},
>>
>> %% mapred\_name is URL used to submit map/reduce requests to Riak.
>> {mapred\_name, "mapred"},
>>
>> %% js\_vm\_count is the number of Javascript VMs to start per Riak 
>> node.
>> %% 8 is a good default for smaller installations. A larger number 
>> like
>> %% 12 or 16 is appropriate for installations handling lots of 
>> map/reduce
>> %% processing.
>> {js\_vm\_count, 8},
>>
>> %% js\_source\_dir should point to a directory containing Javascript 
>> source
>> %% files which will be loaded by Riak when it initializes 
>> Javascript VMs.
>> %{js\_source\_dir, "/tmp/js\_source"}
>>
>>
>> %% riak\_stat enables the use of the "riak-admin status" command to
>> %% retrieve information the Riak node for performance and debugging 
>> needs
>> {riak\_stat, true}
>> ]},
>>
>> %% SASL config
>> {sasl, [
>> {sasl\_error\_logger, {file, "log/sasl-error.log"}},
>> {errlog\_type, error},
>> {error\_logger\_mf\_dir, "log/sasl"}, % Log directory
>> {error\_logger\_mf\_maxbytes, 10485760}, % 10 MB max file size
>> {error\_logger\_mf\_maxfiles, 5} % 5 files max
>> ]},
>> {innostore, [
>> {data\_home\_dir, "data/innodb"}, %% Where data files go
>> {log\_group\_home\_dir, "data/innodb"}, %% Where log files go
>> {buffer\_pool\_size, 104857600} %% 100MB in-memory buffer in bytes
>> ]}
>> ].
>>
>>
>> Many thanks,
>>
>> --
>> --Trung
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>
>>
>>
>
>
> --
> --Trung
>
>
>


-- 
--Trung
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

