---
title: "Re: Getting all the Keys"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-01-28T15:03:48-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg02147"
author_name: "Jeremiah Peschka"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-01-28T15:03:48-08:00

---


Another thing to keep in mind is how you design your keys in Riak. In an
RDBMS, it's easy to use an arbitrary surrogate key, like a UUID or identity
column and then create secondary indexes on "useful" attributes in order to
provide natural lookups.

Let's say you have a user. The easiest way to key a user is by a username or
email address.
If a user can have documents, you have a few choices. I would key the
documents as username\_title\_slug

 - you can create links from users to documents, but this starts to fall
 apart after a large number of links.
 - You can create a bucket to collect a user's documents and store the
 keys for a user's documents as a list in side that bucket.
 e.g. I'd have a key/value pair named 'jeremiah' and then a list of
 everything I've written ['jeremiah\_i\_like\_pie',
 'jeremiah\_ten\_more\_reasons\_why\_i\_like\_pie', ..., 'jeremiah\_mmmm\_potatoes']

There are a lot of good resources out there
http://blog.basho.com/2010/03/19/schema-design-in-riak---introduction/ Some
of the Riak presentations up on slideshare also talk about data modeling
with Riak.

You're not being silly, I had the same questions when I started using Riak.

Jeremiah Peschka
Microsoft SQL Server MVP
MCITP: Database Developer, DBA


On Fri, Jan 28, 2011 at 3:49 PM, Sean Cribbs  wrote:

> Those are some ways, yes. Generally there are one or more keys that are
> "known" -- usernames, device identifiers, etc -- which then have references
> or in some other way inform the application about how to find other keys.
> This is why links and link-walking were some of the earliest available
> features of Riak.
>
> Sean Cribbs 
> Developer Advocate
> Basho Technologies, Inc.
> http://basho.com/
>
> On Jan 28, 2011, at 3:07 PM, Marcin Krol wrote:
>
> > -----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
> > Hash: SHA1
> >
> >
> > I'm playing with riak to see what it's good for, so I need to ask:
> >
> > Sean Cribbs wrote:
> >> To understand why listing keys is difficult, you have to understand
> Riak's (and Dynamo's) original design motivations:
> >>
> >> \* To be basically available at all times for reads and writes, which in
> turn means to be tolerant of machine and network failures.
> >> \* To provide low-latency random access to large data sets. (Note I
> didn't say an entire data set.)
> >> \* To scale linearly with minimal operational complexity.
> >
> > This begs the question: so how DO people know their keys, in practice?
> > Apart from trivial cases like including those keys in pregenerated HTML
> > pages, so when user clicks the link, riak is queried for that key?
> >
> > Do people generate their keys from some templates, like searching a
> > bucket "city-zip\_code" would generate a range of keys like
> > "london\_w2qsomething" to "london\_somethingelse" ?
> >
> > This may look silly to you, but I'm trying to get to grips with idea how
> > riak is \*actually used\* in querying.
> >
> >
> >
> > - --
> >
> > Regards,
> > mk
> >
> > - --
> > Premature optimization is the root of all fun.
> > -----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
> > Version: GnuPG v1.4.9 (MingW32)
> > Comment: Using GnuPG with Mozilla - http://enigmail.mozdev.org/
> >
> > iQEcBAEBAgAGBQJNQyH/AAoJEFMgHzhQQ7hOqcoH/itq5jVuBr4ZCnDP06G2tae0
> > nQMIarWOS8rIVqEB6vv99AKggoW9FGCBfR4uOjKzZIv5QgSGWcvvQlcP1hqj3kmD
> > SfKkLKxP7iEDK+w+D/tHlYTuuMkc0PBI2crWtKj6VB6/bPl7eP9SPJBr9Qh86M4l
> > 6KWbQpufkpAKvroJ0odos9qO6bozqM1afUaN0m7v183ghGhUl6TJZ21DDylahNx0
> > MfOox0hl3vxJoUff+qsJiBas2XyD0hBm8vaFux8XhCFermXqgdLHmrHfawzPBpQi
> > JLwYTfq25Kj/xFhyDE4uXLRoH8BHGeRCVwpmTvnvGQyvhMoEz+959kE3WFW41yE=
> > =sjMV
> > -----END PGP SIGNATURE-----
> >
> > \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> > riak-users mailing list
> > riak-users@lists.basho.com
> > http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

