---
title: "Re: Heart"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-08-03T16:41:29-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04206"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04197"
author_name: "Jeremy Raymond"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-08-03T16:41:29-07:00
---


Yea I'm currently monitoring things with Nagios, so I know it goes down. It
just shouldn't be going down.

On Wednesday, August 3, 2011, Alexander Sicular  wrote:
> Or you could use a process monitor like monit or god depending on your
environment.
>
> -alexander
>
> Sent from my rotary phone.
>
> On Aug 3, 2011 12:49 PM, "Jeremy Raymond"  wrote:
>> So just manually restart the nodes? Is this what most people do?
>>
>> - Jeremy
>>
>> On 2011-08-03 12:48 PM, "Jeremy Raymond"  wrote:
>>> So just manually restart the nod
>>>
>>> - Jeremy
>>>
>>> On 2011-08-03 9:29 AM, "David Smith"  wrote:
>>>> Generally, I would advise against using heart as it has no rate
>>>> limiting when restarting, which can lead to vicious cycles of restart.
>>>>
>>>> The presence of "heart" in the riak scripts was my attempt (way back
>>>> when) to ensure that the generic Erlang scripts provided access to as
>>>> much functionality as possible. In production usage, however, I advise
>>>> against using it.
>>>>
>>>> D.
>>>>
>>>> On Tue, Aug 2, 2011 at 9:48 AM, Jeremy Raymond 
>>> wrote:
>>>>> Hello,
>>>>> I occasionally have a Riak node that goes down. Is recommended (or
not)
>>> to
>>>>> enable the heartbeat restart of the node in /etc/riak/vm.args? Anyone
>>>>> have experience with this enabled for Riak?
>>>>> - Jeremy
>>>>>
>>>>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>>>>> riak-users mailing list
>>>>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>>>>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>>>>
>>>>>
>>>>
>>>>
>>>>
>>>> --
>>>> Dave Smith
>>>> Director, Engineering
>>>> Basho Technologies, Inc.
>>>> diz...@basho.com
>

-- 
- Jeremy
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

