---
title: "Re: Basho Switching to git/GitHub for Riak Development"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-11-11T19:52:10-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01526"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg01372"
author_name: "Dmitry Demeshchuk"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-11-11T19:52:10-08:00
---


Yay!

Congratulations, guys! That's the moment I've been waiting for like a half year!

On Mon, Oct 25, 2010 at 6:57 PM, Mark Phillips  wrote:
> Hey All,
>
> Mark here.
>
> As of this morning the Basho Development Team has switched to using
> git and GitHub for the development of Riak and all other Basho
> software.  Up until now we have used hg/Bitbucket and mirrored all
> repos over to github.com/basho. That is now reversed, and the mirror
> now points bitbucket.com/basho.
>
> Why? There are several reasons, the primary of which is that GitHub,
> the application, lends itself to more collaboration when developing
> open source software. Again, this was a decision made on the basis of
> community development; technically-speaking we were satisfied with
> what Bitbucket offered.
>
> I'll be writing a blog post that will appear in about a week or so
> with some more details on why we made the switch. If you have any
> questions between now and then, don't hesitate to ask.
>
> One issue that some of you might run into: building Riak will now
> require having git installed. If you don't have it, you can download
> it here ---> http://git-scm.com/
>
> Thanks,
>
> Mark
>
> Community Manager
> Basho Technologies
> wiki.basho.com
> twitter.com/pharkmillups
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>



-- 
Best regards,
Dmitry Demeshchuk

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

