---
title: "Strange behavior during performance testing when bringing up a Riak	node in the cluster"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-09-21T11:42:28-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08638"
author_name: "Lei Gu"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-09-21T11:42:28-07:00

---


Hi Brian,
I am observing very inconsistent behavior during our performance testing. I 
have a five-node VM based cluster and my average performance test result is 1.3 
seconds for 10 threads. No issue with bringing down one or two nodes and 
re-execute performance testing. However, when I bring up a down node during the 
performance testing, all test cases were clocked at 7.7 seconds, a six times 
increase. When I re-executed the test cases after all five nodes are up a 
while, the test results are back down to 1.3 seconds. It seems like bringing up 
a node has a significant performance impact on the cluster itself.
Does it make any sense? I can consistently reproduce this behavior.
Thanks.
-- Lei

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
The information contained in this electronic mail transmission is intended only 
for the use of the individual or entity named in this transmission. If you are 
not the intended recipient of this transmission, you are hereby notified that 
any disclosure, copying or distribution of the contents of this transmission is 
strictly prohibited and that you should delete the contents of this 
transmission from your system immediately. Any comments or statements contained 
in this transmission do not necessarily reflect the views or position of GSI 
Commerce, Inc. or its subsidiaries and/or affiliates.

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

