---
title: "Re: Next few months in Riak HEAD"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-06-13T07:31:03-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03656"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg03654"
author_name: "Keith Bennett"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-06-13T07:31:03-07:00
---


I've been wanting to say this for weeks now...

I really like how communicative and responsive all of you at Basho are with us, 
your users.

Thanks for that, as well as for riak and the riak ruby client, which makes 
using riak so easy.

Sean and all, your same day response, including code change, to my Bucket.keys 
issue a few weeks ago was an amazing display of openness and responsiveness. 
As a user, I feel valued and listened to.

Keep up the good work!

- Keith


On Jun 13, 2011, at 9:36 AM, David Smith wrote:

> All,
> 
> The next few months will see a number of major new features and
> changes dropping into the tip (aka HEAD) of the Riak codebase. The
> team at Basho is very excited to get these new pieces of code out
> there and we believe that this upcoming release will make Riak even
> more reliable and easier to use.
> 
> With this excitement in mind, I'd like to take a moment and remind the
> community that we do NOT recommend using HEAD for production purposes.
> While every commit is peer-reviewed and tested, there are times when
> the code can be rough around the edges during feature integration.
> Open Source is wonderful in that it lets us share new stuff earlier
> and gather feedback on it. However, it also means you get to see (and
> run) the code before it's had a chance to settle and be thoroughly
> tested for release.
> 
> As with all Riak releases in the past year, we will ensure that you
> can do a rolling upgrade to the next release when it's available.
> There just might be some bumpy air between here and there.
> 
> Fasten your seatbelts and hang on, folks. It's gonna be fun. :)
> 
> Sincerely,
> 
> D.
> 
> 
> -- 
> Dave Smith
> Director, Engineering
> Basho Technologies, Inc.
> diz...@basho.com
> 
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

