---
title: "allow_multi VS HTTP Conditional PUT"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-01-02T22:09:17-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01876"
author_name: "Eric Moritz"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-01-02T22:09:17-08:00

---


Hi I just read "Why Vector Clocks are Easy". I am having trouble
seeing the advantage of letting a stale PUT into production and merge
afterwards vs HTTP's Conditional PUT, which never let's a stale PUT
into production.

I feel like the way that HTTP handles optimistic concurrency control
works a little better, but feel free to tell me that I am wrong.

So consider the following flow, using the same actors and actions as
the blog post:

1. Alice Creates new dinner plans for Wednesday: (If-None-Match: \*
only succeeds if no record exists):

curl -i -X PUT -H "X-Riak-ClientId: Alice" -H "If-None-Match: \*" -H
"Content-Type: text/plain" \
 http://localhost:8098/riak/plans/dinner --data "Wednesday"

2. Ben, Cathy and Dave all fetch the dinner plans:

curl -i http://localhost:8098/riak/plans/dinner
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Last-Modified: Mon, 03 Jan 2011 05:47:29 GMT
ETag: 4hxy2rXigoJqGuM8ZX44GP

Wednesday

3. Ben, using the ETag from his GET, now PUTs a new date. Essentially
saying that he derived his data from what he thinks is the most recent
data in the database. Since no one has updated plans/dinner since he
fetched the dinner plans. The PUT succeeds.

curl -i -X PUT -H "X-Riak-ClientId: Ben" \
 -H "If-Match: 4hxy2rXigoJqGuM8ZX44GP" \
 -H "Content-Type: text/plain"
http://localhost:8098/riak/plans/dinner --data "Tuesday"

4. Dave downloads the latest dinner plans:

curl -i http://localhost:8098/riak/plans/dinner
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Last-Modified: Mon, 03 Jan 2011 05:49:52 GMT
ETag: 3sJshP0UkUC1pTVyhdP6so
Date: Mon, 03 Jan 2011 05:50:19 GMT
Content-Type: text/plain
Content-Length: 7

Tuesday

5. Cathy took her sweet time to update the dinner plans, when she
tries to update the database, her update fails because it
is based on inaccurate, stale data:

curl -X PUT -H "X-Riak-ClientId: Cathy" \
 -H "If-Match: 4hxy2rXigoJqGuM8ZX44GP"\
 -H "Content-Type: text/plain"
http://localhost:8098/riak/plans/dinner --data "Thursday"

HTTP/1.1 412 Precondition Failed

6. Cathy will now have to fetch the latest data and merge what she
wants with what is current:

curl -i http://localhost:8098/riak/plans/dinner
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Last-Modified: Mon, 03 Jan 2011 05:49:52 GMT
ETag: 3sJshP0UkUC1pTVyhdP6so
Date: Mon, 03 Jan 2011 05:50:19 GMT
Content-Type: text/plain
Content-Length: 7

Tuesday

7. Cathy uses the new ETag, and updates the record:
curl -X PUT -H "X-Riak-ClientId: Cathy" \
 -H "If-Match: 3sJshP0UkUC1pTVyhdP6so"\
 -H "Content-Type: text/plain"
http://localhost:8098/riak/plans/dinner --data "Thursday"

---

Thanks to webmachine's HTTP completeness, we are fully able to take
advantage of HTTP's Conditional PUTs. This method has at least one
major advantage, unmerged changes never go into production. The
disadvantage is the client has to hang onto the request body being PUT
in case the precondition fails and the user or application needs to
reconcile the conflict.

Eric.

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

