---
title: "Re: Listen to Put Event in Riak"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-11-17T17:19:17-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05648"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg05632"
author_name: "Eric Fong"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-11-17T17:19:17-08:00
---


Hi

I want to use Riak to remove the single point of failure.
As I know, if you want to remove the single point of failure in RabbitMQ,
you also need another cluster system or some complicated setting which I
think is too heavy.

So far, I think use the post-commit hook to directly kick off the external
process will be a simple and enough for me (Not sure what will it will be).

I think it would be nice to have a built-in distributed list or
queue (special bucket or record) implementation (like Redis?) in Riak will
be really nice feature.

Thanks
Eric

On Thu, Nov 17, 2011 at 11:57 PM, Jon Brisbin  wrote:

> This is a situation similar to one I had in mind when I wrote the Riak ->
> RabbitMQ integration. Think of it as a distributed database trigger. It is
> a post-commit hook, as Russell mentions being the way to achieve what
> you're looking for, but this post-commit hooks sends out an AMQP message
> telling subscribers about new data coming into Riak.
>
> https://github.com/jbrisbin/riak-rabbitmq-commit-hooks
>
>
> Thanks!
>
> Jon Brisbin
> http//jbrisbin.com
>
> ------------------------------
>
> \*From: \*"Eric Fong" 
> \*To: \*riak-users@lists.basho.com
> \*Sent: \*Wednesday, November 16, 2011 8:59:00 PM
> \*Subject: \*Listen to Put Event in Riak
>
>
> Hi
>
> I have Riak servers A, B and C.
> As I know, assume I put my data into Riak server A via HTTP interface,
> I will hashed and determined to be stored in some other servers. May be
> finally stored into B and C.
>
> What I want is listen to the upload event.
> And one and only one of them A, B, C kick off some external process.
>
> Any API for that ?
> Or I should have watching processes in all A, B, C servers (will have race
> condition and locking problem)?
>
> Sorry, I am new to Riak. I may miss some important components.
> Please point that out to me.
>
> Thanks
>
> --
> Best Regards,
> Eric Fong
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
>


-- 
Best Regards,
Eric Fong
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

