---
title: "Re: Unexpected issue w/ m/r Riak.reduceSlice"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-11-29T15:07:19-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05795"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg05793"
author_name: "Jonathan Langevin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-11-29T15:07:19-08:00
---


I suppose I should instead stream the list of keys to client, slice keys in
client, then fetch the objects, right?
On Nov 29, 2011 5:21 PM, "Jonathan Langevin" 
wrote:

> When attempting to run m/r queries that execute Riak.reduceSlice to create
> paginated result sets, I've found an unexpected result.
>
> For instance, if I call Riak.reduceSlice with start = 80, end = 85, which
> you would expect to return 5 results (knowing that you have a total of 115
> objects stored in Riak), you might instead get 16 objects returned back.
> This is due to the logic of Riak.reduceSlice, which just returns the
> results-thus-far when it finds that the end value (85) is greater than the
> current length of value (16 objects).
>
> I suppose ultimately this is due to how Riak sends data in chunks between
> phases (at least, that's my understanding)? So it happens to send a small
> chunk of 16 results from the map phase to the reduce phase, and reduce
> returns back the current "value" chunk since 16 results is less than 85
> results...
>
>
> How can I plan for this, so that I can ensure I'm getting the expected #
> results back, and in fair context to the "page" of results that I should be
> viewing?
> And just a note, while I tested with & without sorted results, the final
> code would be with sorted results that are then paginated.
>
>
> Example data payload:
> {
> "inputs":"demo\_3\_Course",
> "query":[
> {
> "map":{
> "keep":false,
> "language":"javascript",
> "arg":null,
> "source":"function(value){return [value.key];}"
> }
> },
> {
> "reduce":{
> "keep":true,
> "language":"javascript",
> "arg":[
> 80,
> 85
> ],
> "name":"Riak.reduceSlice"
> }
> }
> ]
> }
> \*
>
> 
> Jonathan Langevin
> Manager, Information Technology
> Loom Inc.
> Wilmington, NC: (910) 241-0433 - jlange...@loomlearning.com -
> www.loomlearning.com - Skype: intel352
> \*
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

