---
title: "Re: Riak error: no_candidate_nodes, exhausted_preflist"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-10-07T02:01:43-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05093"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04749"
author_name: "Martin Woods"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-10-07T02:01:43-07:00
---


Hi Mark

We've only seen this a couple of times on a dev server when we were heavily
loading a single Riak node with lots of mapreduce calculations. However, we
can't reliably reproduce it - feeding the same set of calculations to Riak
has since been okay! We've not made a move to the latest Riak release yet as
we have a production platform running 0.14.2, but even if we did given the
sporadic nature of this error I wouldn't be able to say if it had gone away
or not.

Do you know under what circumstances this error can happen? We're wondering
if there's anything we can do or can avoid doing to reduce the likelihood of
this happening (not that it's a common occurrence).

Regards,
Martin.


On 6 October 2011 20:28, Mark Phillips  wrote:

> Hey Martin,
>
> Just wanted to check in and see if you were able to resolve this
> issue. Are you seeing this on the latest Riak release?
>
> Mark
>
>
>
> On Thu, Sep 15, 2011 at 8:49 AM, Martin Woods  wrote:
> > Hi all
> >
> > When running Riak recently on a development platform (Ubuntu 9.10 Server
> > 64-bit with Riak 0.14.2) the Riak error logs reported the following
> > termination:
> >
> > \*\* Reason for termination =
> > \*\* {error,
> > {phase\_error,
> > {error,
> > {no\_candidate\_nodes,exhausted\_preflist,
> > [{riak\_kv\_mapred\_planner,claim\_keys,3},
> > {riak\_kv\_map\_phase,handle\_info,2},
> > {luke\_phase,handle\_info,3},
> > {gen\_fsm,handle\_msg,7},
> > {proc\_lib,init\_p\_do\_apply,3}],
> >
> > At the time we were heavily loading Riak using the riakc client with
> > multiple Erlang mapreduce requests, each involving key filters. Could
> that
> > load have caused this error? We can see in the code where this is raised
> but
> > don't know enough about Riak under the hood to work out what the
> underlying
> > cause is.
> >
> > Any help would be much appreciated!
> >
> > Kind regards,
> >
> > Martin.
> >
> > \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> > riak-users mailing list
> > riak-users@lists.basho.com
> > http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> >
> >
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

