---
title: "Performance Issue with Embedded Document"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-01-18T01:09:54-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06303"
author_name: "Yehuda Zargrov"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-01-18T01:09:54-08:00

---


Hi,

I have a script that runs over ~200,000 rows, creates an embedded document per 
row and adds each X embedded docs to a Document (5 embedded docs to a document 
by average). The script does other stuff as well.

At first, running the script took too long. Using profiler, I've noticed the 
adding takes the majority time: report << item.

After debugging the code of '<<' function in 'many\_embedded\_proxy.rb', I've 
noticed that each call to "Array(docs)" causes a 'missing\_method' call which 
activates 'define\_attribute\_methods' function.

I've tried to coat the embedded doc parameter myself before calling '<<' and 
removed the following lines from the '<<' function:

 def <<(docs)
 load\_target
 #@reflection.verify\_type!(Array(docs), @owner)
 #assign\_references(docs)
 #@target += Array(docs)
 @target += docs # instead of the previous line
 self
 end

And my script ran 10 times faster. I thought that removing these lines will 
cause a problem to the 'save' method of the document, but the save went ok.

Am I missing something by removing these lines? Is there a problem with the 
code?

Thanks,
[cid:image001.png@01CCD5D1.83CD1B00]


Yehuda Zargrov
Software Engineer
Conduit Your Site
t: +972.8.946.1713 ext +288 | m: +972503473119 | f: +97286382140



This message may contain confidential and/or privileged information. It is 
intended to be read only by the individual or entity to whom it is addressed or 
by their designee.
If the reader of this message is not the intended recipient, you are on notice 
that any uses, copy, disclose or distribution of this message, in any form, is 
strictly prohibited.
If you have received this message in error, please notify the sender by reply 
email or by telephone and delete or destroy any copy of this message. Thank you.


<>\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

