---
title: "Re: Secondary Indexes - Feedback?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-12-01T16:22:12-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05843"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg05813"
author_name: "Mike Oxford"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-12-01T16:22:12-08:00
---


I am putting in 2i right now.

Obvious first thoughts:

1) Why is there a "bucket" as well as index->value? Why are indexes
not "global?" Since getting all keys for a bucket requires a keyspace
walk, why do we need to pass a bucket parameter? What is the
relationship here?

2) No ordering of results : can be done via custom MR, so not the
biggest deal in the world but you end up with a potentially massive
result set if you only want a range. (First 100, last 100, etc.)

3) No multi-index checking. This is a huge lacking feature.

4) Having >75% (WAG) of the examples in more-limiting HTTP/cURL
syntax really really really annoys me, but I'm probably in the
minority here. :)

I think you guys are on to something, because the 2i concept is great
but it needs some flushing out to really be useful. I'm looking
forward to the day when I can say "this index between these two date
ranges, and a max result of 100 items ordered by date." Yes, I can do
that right now via MR, but I have to suck in the whole result set and
filter/sort by hand in the reduce phase. (Yes, it would be nice for
you to do more work so I do not have to! But your work would be more
portable and reusable for the userbase than mine is. :)


-mox



On Wed, Nov 30, 2011 at 10:09 AM, Greg Pascale  wrote:
> Here at Clipboard, we make very heavy use of Riak Search and a couple of
> manual indices here and there. I've wanted to use 2i a few times but have
> decided against it for a few reasons:
>
> 1) Apprehension about the coverage set query, as Matt articulated.
>
> 2) Lack of ordering of returned results. Generally I just want the top 10 or
> so, and the ordering information is in the primary key. I can accomplish
> this with search via the presort parameter.
>
> To me, the implementations of search and 2I are backwards. Search has
> scalability issues because term-based partitioning optimizes for single-term
> queries, but creates huge hotspots making many AND queries prohibitively
> expensive. 2I's document-based partitioning makes single-term queries more
> expensive (coverage set) but should allow AND queries to scale. But 2i only
> supports single-term queries!
>
> --
> Greg
> Clipboard
>
> On Monday, November 21, 2011 at 10:18 PM, Fyodor Yarochkin wrote:
>
> Have you tried Secondary Indexes?
> Does the feature help solve your problems? If not, why not? Any concerns?
> What is your wish list for the future of Secondary Indexes?
>
>
> yup. I think secondary indexes is probably one of the most-wanted
> options for this release. It does impact how you are able to model
> your data alot. We discussed the data modeling patterns internally
> here, and the cool thing with secondary indexes is that it is not only
> queries are possible but also the secondary index name could be
> throught of as dynamic variable. Thus, as long as you can predict the
> secondary index name, you can pretty much use it as indexed field in
> SQL data model. One thing we have not tested yet though: if there is
> a limit on number of secondary indexes for a single object, and how
> the system would behave if the number of secondary indexes for a
> particular object is huge.
>
> Another limitation (or wouldbegoodtohave :-)) thing that we have
> noticed is that there is no straight-forward way to query data by
> multiple secondary indexes at once. You can either do key filtering,
> or do one query, feed it to map job, and then reduce by removing
> entries that do not much 2nd criteria, but not query by
> secondaryAval\_int/2 and secondaryBval\_int/4. This said, I haven't
> really looked into inner workings of secondary indexes implementation,
> so I am simply commenting on this from a user perspective.
>
> Other than this would be interesting to hear some comparisons on
> performance of secondary index queries vs. SOLR indexes (riak\_search),
> in our experience secondary indexes perform way faster on large volume
> of data but this could could be just my impression.
>
> cheers,
> -Fyodor
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

