---
title: "Re: riak doesn't start on new Macbook Pro Retina"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-07-16T18:48:43-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07971"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg07966"
author_name: "Shuhao Wu"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-07-16T18:48:43-07:00
---


I'm also noticing an issue with starting riak. I too cannot start riak
regularly, but riak console works just fine.

Checked all the permission, they seems to be okay.

Shuhao


On Mon, Jul 16, 2012 at 3:20 PM, Steve Hull  wrote:
> So one thing that seems bizarre is that riak has created directory structure
> under /tmp to mirror the directory structure from root to the binary
> executable.
>
> For example, after I tried to start riak using the binary installed by brew,
> I noticed this directory structure that got added to /tmp:
>
> ! ls -alhrt /tmp/usr/local/Cellar/riak/1.1.2-x86\_64/libexec/
> total 0
> drwxr-xr-x 3 shull wheel 102B Jul 13 13:56 ../
> drwxr-xr-x 2 shull wheel 68B Jul 13 14:24 ./
>
>
> And similarly for the local pre-packaged version, it created:
>
> ! ls -alhrt /tmp/Users/shull/Dev/prodar/riak-1.1.4/
> total 0
> drwxr-xr-x 3 shull wheel 102B Jul 13 14:08 ../
> drwxr-xr-x 4 shull wheel 136B Jul 16 11:56 ./
> prw------- 1 shull wheel 0B Jul 16 11:57 erlang.pipe.1.w|
> prw------- 1 shull wheel 0B Jul 16 11:57 erlang.pipe.1.r|
>
>
> I guess there's nothing really \*wrong\* with that, it just kind of worried me
> at first to see that directory structure under /tmp.
>
> Anyway if I read your email correctly, you wanted me to try to start riak
> and then after it reports failure, try to attach to it:
>
> [07-16 11:55] (master)~/Dev/prodar
> ! riak-1.1.4/bin/riak start
> Riak failed to start within 15 seconds,
> see the output of 'riak console' for more information.
> If you want to wait longer, set the environment variable
> WAIT\_FOR\_ERLANG to the number of seconds to wait.
>
> [07-16 11:56] (master)~/Dev/prodar
> ! riak-1.1.4/bin/riak attach
> Node is not running!
>
>
> Not sure if any logs would be interesting to look at after this.
> Interestingly, riak does seem to be running, as basic REST stuff seems to
> work OK (using Ruby + Ripple).
>
> -S
>
> On Mon, Jul 16, 2012 at 12:23 AM, Erik Søe Sørensen  wrote:
>>
>> Well, from the logs it looks like a normal and successful startup...
>> consistent with the fact that a riak process continues to exists.
>> And the startup does not seem to be slow (which would cause a timeout for
>> the script waiting for the node to come up); from logging starts to the node
>> is ready takes just 2s.
>> It then remains to be determined why the start script reports timeout.
>>
>> Either it can't connect to the node, or the check it attempts to make
>> within the node (whether an Erlang process called 'riak\_core\_node\_watcher'
>> is registered) never succeeds.
>> Have you tried attaching to the node, using "riak attach"? That would
>> check which of the two things fail.
>>
>> The pipe files are usually called things like
>> /tmp/riak/erlang.pipe.2.r
>> (they exist in pairs: one to and one from the node).
>>
>> /Erik
>>
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> From: Steve Hull [st...@taskrabbit.com]
>> Sent: 16 July 2012 08:20
>> To: Erik Søe Sørensen
>> Cc: videlalv...@gmail.com; riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> Subject: Re: riak doesn't start on new Macbook Pro Retina
>>
>> Hi Erik!
>>
>> Thanks for the suggestions. I checked out /tmp but didn't see anything
>> that looked like a pipe for riak... perhaps could you tell me what the file
>> would be named?
>>
>> Not sure which logs would be most useful, but please find everything that
>> was generated attached.
>>
>> -S
>>
>> On Sat, Jul 14, 2012 at 9:40 AM, Erik Søe Sørensen
>> > wrote:
>> If I remember correctly, this may be a symptom that the pipe file on /tmp
>> which Riak wants to use does already exists but is owned by another user.
>> This happens if Riak has previously been run by a different user.
>> If it's not that, I suggest you provide the logs from the failed "riak
>> start" attempt for further diagnosis...
>
>
>
>
> --
> Steve Hull | TaskRabbit |Software Engineer
> P: 510.928.4719
>
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

