---
title: "if_not_modified"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-11-06T11:06:57-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg09206"
author_name: "Elias Levy"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-11-06T11:06:57-08:00

---


The description of if\_not\_modified is lacking in the documentation. What
guarantees if\_not\_modified provides is a question that has been asked in
the list a few times, but for which no satisfactory answer has been given.
 Its something I've been wanted answered as well, so I did a bit of digging
into the code.

I gather from reading the code that whatever node receives the INM request
perform an internal get to retrieve the object to get its vclock to compare
to the incoming object. The get appears to use the R value that is the
default for the bucket. The default value of R for a bucket is "quorum",
unless changed, although the default for PR is 0. Thus, INM can strongly
guarantee no stale writes, but only if no primary replica nodes have failed
or have become partitioned. That also assumes that you are using at least
an W of "quorum", and ideally a PR of the same.

Correct me if I am wrong, but there appears no way to set the R and PR
values to be used by the internal get during a INM put request, except for
changing the bucket default R and PR values.

The INM only guarantees no stale writes, and only does so when R, PR, W,
and WR are such to to guarantee strong consistency. It does not guard
against concurrent writes. Multiple writers can succeed even when using
INM if they write at the same time.

If you have allow\_mult set to true in the bucket, that means the client
must handle sibling resolution. If allow\_mult is set to false and
last\_write\_wins is set to true, concurrent writes will succeed, but the
value with the latest timestamp will win. If last\_write\_wins is set to
false while allow\_multi is also false, Riak will keep siblings internally,
but use vector clocks to only return a single value.

Its unclear from the documentation what it does in the case of conflicts to
resolve the siblings into the single value. The docs say you'll receive
the "latest" value, but does not say how latest is determined in the case
of a conflict.

Elias Levy
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

