---
title: "Riak Recap for 4/9-4/11"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-04-12T08:47:09-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00002"
author_name: "Mark Phillips"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-04-12T08:47:09-07:00

---


Hi All -

Hope everyone had a great weekend. Some questions and a few
announcements for today's recap.

Best,

Mark

Mark Phillips
Community Manager
twitter.com/pharkmillups

-----------

Riak Recap for 4/9 - 4/11

1) Is there a "regular" way to delete a bucket ? (from xav via twitter)

A ---- There is no "regular" way to delete a bucket. That said, we
recommend doing a list keys operation on the bucket and deleting the
keys individually. (List keys is slated to be a bit faster in the
upcoming 0.10 release, but this can still be a costly operation in
production.)

2) Is map-reduce essentially the mechanism for doing dynamic queries
in Riak? And is it fast enough to be equivalent to say doing queries
in MySQL? ( from chrisrbailey via IRC)

A ---- Yes, m/r is essentially the mechanism for dynamic queries.
Whether or not it's the equivalent of MySQL in terms of speed is hard
to answer concretely. This would depend on, among other things, the
type of queries and how they are written. Your best bet here is to
test and benchmark extensively.

3) For all you Bostonians - @seancribbs will be presenting Riak and
Ripple at Boston Ruby on Tuesday (4/13). More info here :
http://bostonrb.org/events/128

4) The Basho supported Riak Java Client is now in Maven Central:
http://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/basho/riak/riak-client/0.9.1/
- > Big thanks to Jonathan Lee (@jonjlee) for helping to make this happen!

5) For all you New Yorkers, we are planning to have an informal Riak
Happy Hour, something we are referring to as "Riak and Kittenz", from
about
4:30-6:30 at Stout located at 133 West 33rd Street. (
http://www.stoutnyc.com/ ) @antonyfalco and I will be there. Stop in
for a drink (on Basho!) some Riak swag, and good conversation. And of
course, your friends and colleagues who are interested in Riak / NoSQL
technologies are also invited. (If you manage to bring a kitten the
bar, we will have an extra special surprise for you.) Email me or
shoot a message to @pharkmillups with any questions/comments.

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

