---
title: "Re: Scoring in riak-search"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-10-17T00:48:35-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08946"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg08922"
author_name: "Niklas Saers"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-10-17T00:48:35-07:00
---


Hi Ryan,

Thank you very much for your response. :-)

On Oct 15, 2012, at 6:37 PM, Ryan Zezeski 
> wrote:
When I do a search, I receive a responseHeader that has a maxScore. That's 
great, but the score for the individual documents doesn't show. How do I get 
the score for the individual documents listed in my search? I want to use this 
to display to my users 1-5 stars of how well they matched.
This is a bug in the Solr-like interface to Riak Search. It discards the score 
when building the response.

Is this a bug that is planned to be fixed, or will it go away when your new 
search solution comes online?

For the last few months I've been working on a new search solution for Riak 
that uses Solr directly [2]. That is, unlike Riak Search which pretends to 
look like Solr it actually is Solr underneath. Queries like the above, plus 
many more, are supported. I know that doesn't help your current situation but 
if you want to learn more feel free to contact me on a backchannel.

I'm looking forward to seeing what you come up with. :-)

Med Venlig Hilsen / With Kind Regards

Niklas Saers

Mobile: + 45 20 72 77 00 | E-mail: n...@trifork.com | 
Skype: njstrifork
Trifork A/S | Margrethepladsen 4 | DK- 8000 Aarhus C | Phone: + 45 8732 
8787 | www.trifork.com

Trifork organize the world class developer conference Goto 
Aarhus - check it out!



\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

