---
title: "possible bug?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-01-17T17:49:08-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg02016"
author_name: "Gary William Flake"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-01-17T17:49:08-08:00

---


I am sorry if this is not the appropriate place to send little observations 
like this. I am just diving into Riak for the first time, and I think it is a 
remarkable system, if not a bit frustrating as well.

Anyhow, here is the issue...

I can create an item in a bucket which has links according to it's header via 
'curl -v'. The links are well formed, plain ascii keys, in the same bucket, 
and with default tags -- i.e., there is nothing strange at all about how they 
are declared.

But if I run:

 curl http://localhost:8098/riak/bucket/key/\_,\_,1

I get:

404 Not FoundNot Found
=========

The 
requested document was not found on this 
server.

---

mochiweb+webmachine web server



Keep in mind that curl http://localhost:8098/riak/bucket/key gives the proper 
response.

Another weird thing... I gave up on trying to fix the issue with the bucket, 
and on a whim the only change to my code was to change the name of the bucket 
to, say, bucket2. Now it works.

This made me think that installing search hooks and/or changing the indexing 
schema put the bucket in an odd state. On repeating those steps on bucket2, 
everything worked still.

I am keeping the bad bucket around if it is of use in debugging something. 
Unfortunately, it is hard for me to describe how to reproduce the exact issue 
because I am basically attempting to build a rich search index for the entirety 
of wikipedia as a sort of "hello world"

If any basho folks want me to run any diagnostics, just let me know.

-- GWF



\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

