---
title: "Upgrade to 1.1.2 problems"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-04-25T14:05:46-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07324"
author_name: "Phil Sorber"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-04-25T14:05:46-07:00

---


We have a 4 node riak 1.0.0 cluster running in production that we want
to upgrade to 1.1.2. We set up a test environment that closely mimic's
the production one. As close as we possibly can with ec2 hosts. First
attempt to jump from 1.0.0 -> 1.1.2 failed. We took into account the
mapred\_system issue and the listkeys\_backpressure issue. We decided to
try 1.0.0 -> 1.0.3 since that would involve the mapred\_system issue
only. That upgrade worked. We then tried to upgrade 1.0.3 -> 1.1.2 and
had similar problems. Details below.

--
# riak-admin transfers
Attempting to restart script through sudo -u riak
'riak@50.16.31.226' waiting to handoff 14 partitions
--

Sometimes this would show as many as 48 transfers. Always from the
node that we upgraded. It would eventually show no transfers left. The
upgrade from 1.0.0 -> 1.0.3 didn't do this.

We tested a link walking query that is similar to what we run in
production. On 2 of the 3 nodes still running 1.0.3 it worked fine. On
the 3rd node, this happened:

Curl run on 1.0.3 node:

--
curl -v http://localhost:8098/riak/email\_address/riakupgr...@gmail.com/\_,\_,1
\* About to connect() to localhost port 8098 (#0)
\* Trying 127.0.0.1... connected
\* Connected to localhost (127.0.0.1) port 8098 (#0)
> GET /riak/email\_address/riakupgr...@gmail.com/\_,\_,1 HTTP/1.1
> User-Agent: curl/7.19.7 (x86\_64-pc-linux-gnu) libcurl/7.19.7 OpenSSL/0.9.8k 
> zlib/1.2.3.3 libidn/1.15
> Host: localhost:8098
> Accept: \*/\*
>
< HTTP/1.1 500 Internal Server Error
< Server: MochiWeb/1.1 WebMachine/1.9.0 (someone had painted it blue)
< Expires: Wed, 25 Apr 2012 20:55:30 GMT
< Date: Wed, 25 Apr 2012 20:45:30 GMT
< Content-Type: text/html
< Content-Length: 2068
<
500 Internal Server
ErrorInternal Server Error
=====================

The server
encountered an error while processing this request:  

```
{error,
 {error,
  {badmatch,
   {eoi,[],
    [{{reduce,0},
      {trace,
       [error],
       {error,
        [{module,riak_kv_w_reduce},
         {partition,1438665674247607560106752257205091097473808596992},
         {details,
          [{fitting,
            {fitting,<0.848.0>,#Ref<0.0.0.5472>,
             #Fun,1}},
 {name,{reduce,0}},
 {module,riak\_kv\_w\_reduce},
 {arg,{rct,#Fun,none}},
 {output,
 {fitting,<0.847.0>,#Ref<0.0.0.5472>,
 #Fun,
 #Fun}},
 {options,
 [{sink,{fitting,<0.119.0>,#Ref<0.0.0.5472>,sink,undefined}},
 {log,sink},
 {trace,
 {set,1,16,16,8,80,48,
 {[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[]},
 {{[],[],[error],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[]}}}}]},
 {q\_limit,64}]},
 {reason,
 {{badmatch,{'EXIT',noproc}},
 [{riak\_core\_vnode\_proxy,call,2},
 {riak\_pipe\_vnode,queue\_work\_send,4},
 {riak\_pipe\_vnode,queue\_work\_erracc,6},
 {riak\_kv\_w\_reduce,'-done/1-lc$^0/1-0-',3},
 {riak\_kv\_w\_reduce,done,1},
 {riak\_pipe\_vnode\_worker,wait\_for\_input,2},
 {gen\_fsm,handle\_msg,7},
 {proc\_lib,init\_p\_do\_apply,3}]}},
 {state,{working,done}}]}}}]}},
 [{riak\_kv\_mrc\_pipe,collect\_outputs,3},
 {riak\_kv\_wm\_link\_walker,execute\_segment,3},
 {riak\_kv\_wm\_link\_walker,execute\_query,3},
 {riak\_kv\_wm\_link\_walker,to\_multipart\_mixed,2},
 {webmachine\_resource,resource\_call,3},
 {webmachine\_resource,do,3},
 {webmachine\_decision\_core,resource\_call,1},
 
{webmachine\_decision\_core,decision,1}]}}
```


---

mochiweb+webmachine
web server webmachine error:
path="/riak/email\_address/riakupgr...@gmail.com/\_,\_,1"
{error,{error,{badmatch,{eoi,[],[{{reduce,0},{trace,[error],{error,[{module,riak\_kv\_w\_reduce},{partition,1438665674247607560106752257205091097473808596992},{details,[{fitting,{fitting,<0.848.0>,#Ref<0.0.0.5472>,#Fun,1}},{name,{reduce,0}},{module,riak\_kv\_w\_reduce},{arg,{rct,#Fun,none}},{output,{fitting,<0.847.0>,#Ref<0.0.0.5472>,#Fun,#Fun}},{options,[{sink,{fitting,<0.119.0>,#Ref<0.0.0.5472>,sink,undefined}},{log,sink},{trace,{set,1,16,16,8,80,48,{[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[]},{{[],[],[error],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[],[]}}}}]},{q\_limit,64}]},{reason,{{badmatch,{'EXIT',noproc}},[{riak\_core\_vnode\_proxy,call,2},{riak\_pipe\_vnode,queue\_work\_send,4},{riak\_pipe\_vnode,queue\_work\_erracc,6},{riak\_kv\_w\_reduce,'-done/1-lc$^0/1-0-',3},{riak\_kv\_w\_reduce,done,1},{riak\_pipe\_vnode\_worker,wait\_for\_input,2},{gen\_fsm,handle\_msg,7},{proc\_lib,init\_p\_do\_apply,3}]}},{state,{working,done}}]}}}]}},[{riak\_kv\_mrc\_pipe,collect\_outputs,3},{riak\_kv\_wm\_link\_walker,execute\_segment,3},{riak\_kv\_wm\_link\_walker,execute\_query,3},{riak\_kv\_wm\_link\_walker,to\_multipart\_mixed,2},{webmachine\_resource,resource\_call,3},{webmachine\_resource,do,3},{webmachine\_decision\_core,resource\_call,1},{webmachine\_decision\_core,decision,1}]}}
--

And this was in the error.log on the 1.1.2 node:

error.log on 1.1.2 node:

--
2012-04-25 20:45:30.234 [error] <0.1710.0> gen\_fsm <0.1710.0> in state
wait\_for\_input terminated with reason: no match of right hand value
{'EXIT',noproc} in riak\_core\_vnode\_proxy:call/2
2012-04-25 20:45:30.243 [error] <0.1710.0> CRASH REPORT Process
<0.1710.0> with 0 neighbours crashed with reason: no match of right
hand value {'EXIT',noproc} in riak\_core\_vnode\_proxy:call/2
2012-04-25 20:45:30.245 [error] <0.331.0> Supervisor
riak\_pipe\_vnode\_worker\_sup had child undefined started with
{riak\_pipe\_vnode\_worker,start\_link,undefined} at <0.1710.0> exit with
reason no match of right hand value {'EXIT',noproc} in
riak\_core\_vnode\_proxy:call/2 in context child\_terminated
--

On the 1.1.2 node, running the same curl, it returned a 404 after a
long timeout:

Curl run on the 1.1.2 node:

--
curl -v http://localhost:8098/riak/email\_address/riakupgr...@gmail.com/\_,\_,1
\* About to connect() to localhost port 8098 (#0)
\* Trying 127.0.0.1... connected
\* Connected to localhost (127.0.0.1) port 8098 (#0)
> GET /riak/email\_address/riakupgr...@gmail.com/\_,\_,1 HTTP/1.1
> User-Agent: curl/7.19.7 (x86\_64-pc-linux-gnu) libcurl/7.19.7 OpenSSL/0.9.8k 
> zlib/1.2.3.3 libidn/1.15
> Host: localhost:8098
> Accept: \*/\*
>
< HTTP/1.1 404 Object Not Found
< Server: MochiWeb/1.1 WebMachine/1.9.0 (someone had painted it blue)
< Date: Wed, 25 Apr 2012 20:49:40 GMT
< Content-Type: text/html
< Content-Length: 193
<
\* Connection #0 to host localhost left intact
\* Closing connection #0
404 Not FoundNot
Found
=========

The requested document was not found on this
server.

---

mochiweb+webmachine web
server


--

There was nothing more in any error logs after this. Also pulling up
direct keys fails on this node. Riak is installed from the debian
packages. I can send you whatever other info is neccesary. We tried
many different combinations, but I think this one is the most correct
and produced the most useful error messages. Any help is appreciated.

Thanks.

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com



