---
title: "Re: Riak Cluster Setup on EC2"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-02-02T07:08:43-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg02168"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg02167"
author_name: "Sean Cribbs"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-02-02T07:08:43-08:00
---


Abhishek,

First, make sure all of your nodes are in the same security group. Second, 
check that your OS doesn't have an additional firewall installed (iptables, for 
example). Third, you might consider doing what the Chef recipe for Riak does 
and limit the ports that Erlang uses for distributed communication. Adding a 
section to app.config like the below will limit the port range:

{kernel, [
 {inet\_dist\_listen\_min, 6000},
 {inet\_dist\_listen\_max, 7999}
]}

You'll need to stop Riak, kill the "epmd" process, and then start Riak up again 
for this change to take effect. Make sure those ports are also open in your 
security group and any software firewall you have.

Sean Cribbs 
Developer Advocate
Basho Technologies, Inc.
http://basho.com/

On Feb 2, 2011, at 8:47 AM, Abhishek Kona wrote:

> Hi folks
> 
> I am trying to set up a Riak cluster on EC2.
> Each time I issue a command :
> 
> $ sudo riak-admin join riak@10.130.149.253
> 
> It fails :
> 
> Attempting to restart script through sudo -u riak
> 
> Node riak@10.130.149.253 is not reachable!
> 
> 
> Netstat on both the machines says the ports are running fine.
> 
> netstat -na | egrep '(8087|8098|8099)'
> 
> tcp 0 0 0.0.0.0:8098 0.0.0.0:\* LISTEN
> 
> tcp 0 0 0.0.0.0:8099 0.0.0.0:\* LISTEN
> 
> tcp 0 0 0.0.0.0:8087 0.0.0.0:\* LISTEN
> 
> 
> I can telnet to all the ports from each of the machine.
> I have been pulling my hair for long but of no avail.
> Can any one look and tell me what I am doing wrong.
> Are there any debug logs where I can look at what is going wrong?
> Is there any EC2 specific trick (like using public hostnames).
> 
> I am attaching my app.cfg file for reference.
> 
> Thanks
> -Abhishek Kona
> 
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

