---
title: "Riak Search is now just Riak w/ Search enabled"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-06-13T14:10:00-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03668"
author_name: "Ryan Zezeski"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-06-13T14:10:00-07:00

---


Riak Users,

I'm happy to announce that Riak Search has now been integrated with Riak in
the master branch.

https://github.com/basho/riak/commit/1a4daa717ce9bb627e72fb7c32dda2ec84e02e92

To use Search you no longer checkout the riak\_search repo. Instead, you
checkout riak, build a release as you usually would, and then enable the
Search functionality. It should be fairly obvious how to do this by looking
at `app.config` but there is a small README in the riak\_search repo going
over this (which I should probably move into the Riak README).

https://github.com/basho/riak\_search

Along with the integration work we have also decided to drop support for JVM
based analyzers (i.e. the Qilr application was removed). While our
analyzers are not nearly as sophisticated as what is provided by Lucene we
engaged with the community and our customers and found that very few, if
any, are making use of this functionality. Considering the cruft and
general awkwardness this caused to the riak\_search code base we figured it
was best to remove this support for now. Furthermore, this support was not
free in that there was overhead that had to be paid for talking with the
JVM instances running these analyzers. This doesn't mean we won't possibly
support more advanced analyzers in the future but for now we have what we
need for the majority of use cases.

Finally, please bear with us while we update documentation and refine the
Search/Riak integration over the next couple of months.

-Ryan
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

