---
title: "Re: How to profile a cluster of Riak nodes"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-08-09T08:57:15-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08241"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg08240"
author_name: "Alexander Sicular"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-08-09T08:57:15-07:00
---


I hate to use your post as an example, Amir, but your post is a perfect example 
of "according to my benchmark your product did not meet my performance 
expectations; oh ya, I'm not gonna tell you anything about the benchmark or the 
environment I was running in." Everybody, please stop doing that. It really 
isn't helpful... to anyone.

Please resubmit your inquiry including, but not limited to, the following 
details:

Hardware - ie. hard drive details, memory, processors, etc.
Network - ie. speed. dedicated network, switch, etc. 
OS - ie. linux flavor, version, etc.
Data - ie. size of keys, size of values, number of keys, etc.
Riak specific - ie. config file, n val, backend, etc.
Benchmark specific ie. concurrency, transport (http vs pb), time duration of 
benchmark, key distribution (linear, random, pareto)


Best,

-Alexander Sicular

@siculars

On Aug 9, 2012, at 10:32 AM, amir ghaffari wrote:

> Hi there,
> 
> I have done a scalability benchmark for Riak DBMS and we couldn't scale up 
> the throughput beyond 20 Riak nodes. The benchmarking with Basho\_Bench has 
> been run on a 31 node cluster and each node has its own hard disk but the 
> maximum throughput is on 20 nodes.
> 
> I’d like to understand why Riak didn’t scale e.g. is it the connection, or 
> other network traffic. I’d like to use some profiling tools to get more 
> information. Please can you advise us a helpful profiling tool to use?
> 
> Thanks in advance,
> 
> Amir
> 
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

