---
title: "Re: riak-0.14.2 memory crash"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-07-08T16:42:31-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03969"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg03968"
author_name: "Daniel Reverri"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-07-08T16:42:31-07:00
---


Can you check if an erl\_crash.dump file was created? The crash dump should give 
some indication of which processes were taking up memory. 

The crashdump\_viewer built into Erlang is very useful for reviewing crash 
dumps. 

Thanks
Dan

Sent from my iPhone

On Jul 8, 2011, at 4:18 PM, Sylvain Niles  wrote:

> Our system had been humming along fine for a week and crashed today
> with almost no load. This is the only thing in the erlang.log:
> 
> 
> =INFO REPORT==== 8-Jul-2011::16:46:14 ===
> [{alarm\_handler,{clear,system\_memory\_high\_watermark}}]
> =INFO REPORT==== 8-Jul-2011::16:50:14 ===
> [{alarm\_handler,{set,{system\_memory\_high\_watermark,[]}}}]
> =INFO REPORT==== 8-Jul-2011::16:51:14 ===
> [{alarm\_handler,{clear,system\_memory\_high\_watermark}}]/usr/local/src/riak-0.14.2/rel/riak/lib/os\_mon-2.2.5/priv/bin/memsup:
> Erlang has closed.
> Erlang has closed
> 
> Crash dump was written to: erl\_crash.dump
> eheap\_alloc: Cannot allocate 1824525600 bytes of memory (of type "heap").
> 
> 
> Looking in the sasl-error log I see that an erlang function I wrote
> was crashing in some cases:
> 
> \*\* Reason for termination = \*\* {error, {phase\_error,
> {error, {error,undef,
> [{get\_erl,past\_events, [{r\_object,<<"events">>,
> <<"LRs2PibmMZknPm44IMzoZflCHUP">>,
> [{r\_content,
> ...ETC
> 
> 
> So I definitely need to fix my code, but I'm wondering if this is
> expected behavior that this would cause a memory leak that eventually
> brings down riak? I thought if the process running my module crashed
> everything would just be garbage collected and that'd be the end of
> it. Any advice on the right way to approach this would be great,
> thanks!
> 
> -Sylvain
> 
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

