---
title: "Re: Riak Search - searching across all fields"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-12-18T09:14:26-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg09612"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg09611"
author_name: "Mark Phillips"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-12-18T09:14:26-08:00
---


On Tue, Dec 18, 2012 at 11:24 AM, Ryan Zezeski  wrote:
>
>
>
> On Sat, Dec 15, 2012 at 12:43 AM, Matt Painter  wrote:
>
>
> The fork of Riak used by Yokozuna is extremely minimal. It mostly consist
> of bundling the yokozuna library and sending the KV data so it can be
> indexed. The goal is and will continue to be to make \_minimal\_ changes
> outside of Yokozuna.
>
> You could certainly combine Riak and ES. Other users of ours have done it.
> Honestly, go with whatever works for you. No need to wait for Yokozuna if
> you think you can get it done today with other tools. I will note, however,
> that something like that will not be as tightly integrated as Yokozuna.
> Which isn't to say it's bad, it's just a trade off to be aware of. E.g.
> Yokozuna has built-in active anti-entropy (AAE) with Riak--when data becomes
> divergent AAE will detect it and fix it for you without requiring action on
> your part. You won't get that with Riak +  (without
> writing your own code to do it).
>

Though my heart and allegiances lie with Yokozuna, I wouldn't be doing
my job as an unbiased community manager if I didn't pass this along.

https://github.com/ChristopherBiscardi/mau5

It looks like early work on a Riak -> Elastic Search River. This is
the first one I've seen released.

Mark
twitter.com/pharkmillups


>
> -Z
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

