---
title: "Riak n00b questions"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-03-14T03:15:52-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg02628"
author_name: "Ishwar"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-03-14T03:15:52-07:00

---


Hi Riak folks,

I'm new to Riak and have been reading up the wiki, watching videos and getting 
the development environment up and running.

I'll be using Riak as a key-value pair storage system, and run various 
MapReduce operations over the datastore for data analysis using the Python 
client. I have a few questions on the usage of python client.

1. For a 3-node cluster with number of copies for each document set to two, is 
there a way in which I wish to  distribute fetch requests uniformly across the 
three nodes?  I realise riak internally fetches the record from whichever node 
the data is available.
    This is the code I use to fetch values from keys:
            client = riak.RiakClient(host, port)
            bucket = self.client.bucket(bucketName)
            for key in keys:
                post = self.bucket.get(key)
     This would send all fetches to the same node. Is it better to put a 
loadbalancer in front of the three nodes to distribute the requests uniformly, 
or is creating a client object lightweight enough that I can dynamically 
connect to whichever client?

2. My familiarity with erlang and Javascript is minimal. Would somebody answer 
if the following things are doable/advisable to do?
     a. Most of the processes I want to run on the data are in python and php. 
Is it possible to call these processes from erlang/javascript?
     b. I've been looking for MapReduce tutorials for python client, but 
couldn't find any. Can somebody point to a sample MapReduce from python client, 
for example, to retrieve multiple records from Riak? (Given a set of keys 
[1,2,3,4], retrieve the records for these from Riak using MapReduce).

--
Thanks in advance,
Ishwar.
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

