---
title: "Re: CorrugatedIron v0.1.3 Released"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-09-30T11:13:08-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04945"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04943"
author_name: "Jeremiah Peschka"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-09-30T11:13:08-07:00
---


Looks like OJ has mostly finished up the work on that, anyway. We'll just need 
to integrate that back in to develop for the imminent 0.2.0 release.

In closing: I suspect that our use of .NET config files is not blocking the use 
of CorrugatedIron within Microsoft.
---
Jeremiah Peschka - Founder, Brent Ozar PLF, LLC
Microsoft SQL Server MVP

On Sep 30, 2011, at 1:45 PM, Jeremiah Peschka wrote:

> Thanks. I can't take all the credit/blame - OJ Reeves has written massive 
> amounts of code, too.
> 
> We're aware that many people like to complain about our use of config files. 
> When you write a piece of software, you make the choice between shipping 
> software or adding more features. We chose to ship CorrugatedIron and see 
> then what people liked and what they didn't like.
> 
> People didn't like our use of .NET's crusty old config system that they even 
> created a github issue about it: 
> https://github.com/DistributedNonsense/CorrugatedIron/issues/4
> 
> We hear you and will be moving to get this out as soon as we can after we get 
> the Riak 1.0 feature compatibility ironed out.
> 
> Is our use of .NET configuration files blocking adoption of CorrugatedIron in 
> your organization?
> ---
> Jeremiah Peschka - Founder, Brent Ozar PLF, LLC
> Microsoft SQL Server MVP
> 
> On Sep 30, 2011, at 1:40 PM, Kyle Quest wrote:
> 
>> Jeremiah, really nice job on CorrugatedIron! Some of it is a bit too
>> over-engineered and more complicated than it has to be. For example,
>> you can't just create a RiakClient object and interact with Riak (like
>> you can do with the official Riak client libraries)... To create a
>> RiakClient (in CorrugatedIron) you need to have a RiakCluster object
>> to pass to the RiakClient object constructor. And you can't easily
>> create a RiakCluster object either. You can only create it from a
>> config section (there's no way to explicitly provide the config values
>> directly in the API). Not every app uses .NET app config files and
>> it's also not uncommon for the app config code to cause exceptions
>> because it can be brittle...
>> 
>> On Thu, Sep 22, 2011 at 3:33 PM, Jeremiah Peschka
>>  wrote:
>>> I just finished up v0.1.3 of CorrugatedIron, everyone's favorite .NET 4.0 
>>> Riak client. There is no new functionality in this release, just a fix from 
>>> Matthew Whitfield: 
>>> https://github.com/DistributedNonsense/CorrugatedIron/issues/18
>>> 
>>> Thanks Matt for helping us make CorrugatedIron better!
>>> 
>>> Binaries have been pushed to NuGet 
>>> (http://nuget.org/List/Packages/CorrugatedIron) and source is available on 
>>> github 
>>> (https://github.com/DistributedNonsense/CorrugatedIron/commit/e9c0af10465176f117bbbf04724087063f9b7fd2)
>>> 
>>> Enjoy!
>>> 
>>> ---
>>> Jeremiah Peschka - Founder, Brent Ozar PLF, LLC
>>> Microsoft SQL Server MVP
>>> 
>>> 
>>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>>> riak-users mailing list
>>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>> 
> 


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

