---
title: "Proposed changes to backends"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-07-15T10:17:59-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04016"
author_name: "Jon Meredith"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-07-15T10:17:59-07:00

---


As we work towards the next release we're planning to refactor the riak\_kv
backend interface and drivers. To ensure a smooth upgrade path we would
like to know if:

1) Has anybody written \*and deployed\* custom backends using the
riak\_kv\_backend behavior for their production deployments (those written
just for fun can be updated just for fun).

2) Is anybody using the dets or fs drivers that would be unable to switch to
bitcask or eleveldb?

If the answer is yes, please respond to the list or directly to me (
jmered...@basho.com).

The plan for the backend drivers is to consolidate some and remove others
that have outgrown their utility.

New:
 memory - adding features from cache to the ETS driver.
 eleveldb - backend using Google's leveldb (already on master with old API)

Updated:
 bitcask
 multi
 innostore - driver will be updated to new interface, but will be deprecated
eventually. InnoBase have removed references to EmbeddedInno from their web
site including removing support forums. A migration path will be provided
at that time.

Removed:
 ets - replaced by memory
 cache - replaced by memory
 gb\_trees - replaced by memory
 dets - bitcask/eleveldb can be used instead.
 fs - bitcask/eleveldb can be used instead.

Best Regards,

Basho Engineering.
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

