---
title: "Re: Streaming map/reduce results"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-03-03T07:10:38-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg02543"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg02542"
author_name: "Jason J. W. Williams"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-03-03T07:10:38-08:00
---


Hi Sean,

That helps to know. Might help if the wiki talks about what the
timeout value doesn't control.

-J

On Thu, Mar 3, 2011 at 8:08 AM, Sean Cribbs  wrote:
> Yes, it's possible that an individual phase can timeout before the entire job 
> has timed out.  We realize this isn't intuitive and are looking into 
> solutions.
>
> Sean Cribbs 
> Developer Advocate
> Basho Technologies, Inc.
> http://basho.com/
>
> On Mar 3, 2011, at 9:44 AM, Jason J. W. Williams wrote:
>
>> Hi Sean,
>>
>> That's weird, because I'm seeing timeouts sooner than the one passed
>> in but only when it's the reduce phase that errors out.
>>
>> -J
>>
>> On Thu, Mar 3, 2011 at 6:34 AM, Sean Cribbs  wrote:
>>> Jason,
>>>
>>> You can't currently change the timeout on individual phases, just on the 
>>> entire job. We're reprioritizing MapReduce to receive some extra love in 
>>> the near future, so if that is a critical feature for you, be sure to file 
>>> a bug on issues.basho.com.
>>>
>>> Sean Cribbs 
>>> Developer Advocate
>>> Basho Technologies, Inc.
>>> http://basho.com/
>>>
>>> On Mar 2, 2011, at 10:34 PM, Jason J. W. Williams wrote:
>>>
>>>> Hi Sean,
>>>>
>>>> Thanks. Also, is there anyway to increase the javascript reduce phase
>>>> timeout? Doing some test M/R jobs, and the reduce phase doesn't seem
>>>> to honor the timeout passed in? Thought playing with streaming would
>>>> help that, but looks like not. Thank you in advance.
>>>>
>>>> -J
>>>>
>>>> On Wed, Mar 2, 2011 at 8:25 PM, Sean Cribbs  wrote:
>>>>> If your query has "keep":true on multiple phases, that phase key lets you 
>>>>> disambiguate results.
>>>>>
>>>>> Sean Cribbs
>>>>>
>>>>> On Mar 2, 2011, at 9:28 PM, "Jason J. W. Williams" 
>>>>>  wrote:
>>>>>
>>>>>> Hello,
>>>>>>
>>>>>> When running map/reduce in streaming mode, since the results are from
>>>>>> the last phase (reduce) what is the significance of the phase key?
>>>>>> (e.g. {"phase":1,"data":[3]} )
>>>>>>
>>>>>> -J
>>>>>>
>>>>>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>>>>>> riak-users mailing list
>>>>>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>>>>>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>>>>
>>>
>>>
>
>

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

