---
title: "Riak Core Mailing List Now Live"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-11-05T09:32:11-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg09200"
author_name: "Mark Phillips"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-11-05T09:32:11-08:00

---


Hey All,

Thanks to the urging of Deadzen [0], we now have a dedicated mailing
list for Riak Core. You can subscribe here:

http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-core\_lists.basho.com

For those of you not familiar with Riak Core [1], it's more-or-less
the distributed systems infrastructure that makes up, well, the core
of how Riak distributes data around the cluster and scales. For some
intro reading that's not code, there's an old but still valuable blog
post on the Basho Blog [2] that's worth your time.

Why a separate list? Because Core is a powerful library that can be
(and is being) used to build applications distinct of the other OTP
apps (kv, search, pipe, etc.) that make up Riak. I know of at least 10
companies/orgs that have Riak Core apps in production, and I'm sure
there are many more just waiting to share their use cases with the
world (hint hint...). There are plenty of Riak issues that are
Core-related, and these should still be handled on this list. However,
as Core gets more use, there are more questions/comments/concerns that
might be specific to Core. There will probably be some overlap, too,
so Basho will take responsibility for cross-posting when necessary.

We've long been convinced of the power of Core, but it has received
less tooling (docs, tutorials, etc.) due to lack of engineering time.
This is a great first step to helping put more community power and
focus behind Core.

Thanks. Let me know if you have any questions.

Mark

[0] 
http://lists.basho.com/pipermail/riak-users\_lists.basho.com/2012-November/010032.html
[1] http://github.com/basho/riak\_core
[2] http://basho.com/blog/technical/2011/04/12/Where-To-Start-With-Riak-Core/

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

