---
title: "Re: riak-search Benchmar.k"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-11-05T05:56:43-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01474"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg01473"
author_name: "Pablo Borges"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-11-05T05:56:43-07:00
---


That query actually maps to all my documents. Simple query is much faster


-

0
305
-

on
0
olho:political
or
value
standard
1.1
43516



On Fri, Nov 5, 2010 at 10:51 AM, Pablo Borges  wrote:

> Due to disk space constraints I had to move to 5 node cluster anyway. I'm
> uploading a compressed 6GB json file. I'm not sure the actual datasize, but
> is should be about 10 ~ 12 times that (By the time I've reached 1.3mi docs,
> the disk usage was around 23GB)
>
> I restarted the test and now I'm with 2mi docs.
>
> The upload speed is a constant 75 docs/s.
>
> Query response doesn't look too good now, but then again I didn't do any
> tuning. I wanted some numbers how it would perform out-of-the-box.
>
> 
> -
> 
> 0
> 37021
> -
> 
> on
> 0
> publicado:SIM
> or
> value
> standard
> 1.1
> 2017736
> 
> 
>
>
> On Fri, Nov 5, 2010 at 5:51 AM, Prometheus WillSurvive <
> prometheus.willsurv...@gmail.com> wrote:
>
>> Hi Pablo,
>>
>> Thanks for your reply. I am looking forward to your results. Please also
>> add the data size details. We have customers that dealing with web scale
>> data size ( billion docs) so I am looking riaksearch whether it is fast
>> enough and feature ready to this job. We want all queries should be below
>> 900 ms ..
>>
>> I will also make other tests and will be publis in this wiki..
>>
>> Regards
>>
>> Prometheus
>>
>>
>>
>> On Nov 5, 2010, at 3:06 AM, Pablo Borges wrote:
>>
>> I haven't used your data, but I'm trying to benchmark riak search against
>> solr.
>>
>> For my test, I'm using each paragraph in the english version of wikipedia
>> as a document as well as some sequential and random data in a couple of
>> fields to reflect our current usage (which is a CMS). That's about 22
>> million documents. My initial test is using just one machine to load it all,
>> but in the next couple of days, I'll be using a 5 node Dell R610 with 24GB
>> RAM and SSD drives to see how well it will perform against solr, which will
>> be using the same machines.
>>
>> Right now, I'm looking into stats information to plot graphs (we use
>> cacti). So far, I've been using a few numbers from /stats page (and trying
>> to figure out what they mean. lol).
>>
>> The only numbers I've got so far is that I was able to index about 1
>> million documents at a rate of 65 documents/s while the solr interface works
>> pretty fast and the load on the machine seems to be steady (around 2.5).
>>
>> I'd really like some real world input to build the graphs, and when I'm
>> done, I'm gonna post them on the wiki. :D
>>
>> Cheers,
>>
>> On Thu, Nov 4, 2010 at 2:13 PM, Prometheus WillSurvive <
>> prometheus.willsurv...@gmail.com> wrote:
>>
>>> Hi Guys,
>>>
>>> Week ago I put data ready to index riaksearch via solr interface in the
>>> rapidshare to make it available to community.
>>>
>>> I would love to get some benchmark resuts from you guys. Is there
>>> anybody test it ?
>>>
>>>
>>> Prometheus..
>>>
>>>
>>>
>>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>>> riak-users mailing list
>>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>>
>>
>>
>>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

