---
title: "what does member_status pending means"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-08-01T23:40:59-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08156"
author_name: "hs raghu"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-08-01T23:40:59-07:00

---


Hi,

 I am exploring Riak cluster of 4 nodes. All nodes are valid nodes, I
could query data from buckets from all nodes locally.

 However, following 'member\_status' is not clear to me.

 My queries are:
 1. I have very less data in this ring, and the data is already
replicated to each node (because I can query it locally). What the
'pending' state?
 Why only the first node to form ring (i.e. 192.168.20.81) shows
ring status 100%?
 2. Second node to join the ring shows pending 50%, what does this
mean?
 3. Similarly, 'transfers' shows that there are 3 nodes which waiting
to handoff 32 partitions. Since data is very less the handoff should have
been
 completed long time back. Is there something wrong in
configuration?

 I tried to look for answers into documentation, however couldn't get
any detailed information about this. Any help or pointers regarding this
are highly appreciated.

regards,
hsr


root@xxxxxx:~# /usr/sbin/riak-admin member\_status
Attempting to restart script through sudo -u riak
================================= Membership
==================================
Status Ring Pending Node
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
valid 0.0% 50.0% 'riak@192.168.20.35'
valid 100.0% 50.0% 'riak@192.168.20.81'
valid 0.0% 0.0% 'riak@192.168.21.59'
valid 0.0% 0.0% 'riak@192.168.21.60'
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


root@xxxxxx:~# /usr/sbin/riak-admin transfers

Attempting to restart script through sudo -u riak'riak@192.168.21.60'
waiting to handoff 32 partitions'riak@192.168.21.59' waiting to
handoff 32 partitions'riak@192.168.20.35' waiting to handoff 32
partitions
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

