---
title: "Re: Riak Adoption - What can we do better?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-04-21T10:44:18-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07284"
author_name: "Shuhao Wu"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-04-21T10:44:18-07:00

---


What about a forum? Right now the mailing list is mainly limited to
discussions that's pretty technical. A forum would allow newbies to ask
intro questions as well as putting up showcase and what not without getting
the whole mailing list covered.

(Forum is more casual, imo)

Shuhao


On Thu, Apr 19, 2012 at 1:31 PM, Mark Phillips  wrote:

> At this point Riak has been deployed thousands of times. This is
> excellent, but as you can imagine we here at Basho feel this is just the
> tip of the iceberg. We want everyone to be running Riak. The software
> obviously needs to solve enough problems for people to want to deploy it.
> However, we need to get the software into developers' hands before this
> happens. So the question is:
>
> What can we be doing better?
>
> I'm not talking so much about features in Riak itself. I'm more interested
> in the other resources, tools, docs, processes, etc., that you think we
> need to put in place or refine to take the Riak community from 1000s of
> users to 100,000s of users. By virtue of being on this list, you've all
> spent some time using or investigating Riak. As such, you're opinions and
> experiences would be very valuable.
>
> Any comments, ideas, or thoughts you had would be great. On or off-list
> will work.
>
> Thanks for your time. Long live the vnode!
>
> Mark
> twitter.com/pharkmillups
>
>
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

