---
title: "Re: Comparison against DynamoDB"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-04-08T00:11:00-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10743"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg10675"
author_name: "Sebastian Cohnen"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-04-08T00:11:00-07:00
---


Hey David,

a customer of mine is running Riak on EC2 (and also using DynamoDB, but for a 
totally different use case). I'm not sure if the 2B keys will be a problem, we 
are a bit below that amount. It also highly depends on your desired backend, 
throughput and latency requirements if you want to run Riak on EC2.

We've struggled quite some time with bad 99th read percentile. When we updated 
to 1.3 and applied an additional patch ([0]), the situation improved. The main 
issue is that the IO performance of EC2's ephemeral instance storage is quite 
unpredictable. We started and stopped a lot of instances in order to get ones, 
that have a better IO performance (IO performance appears to be quite steady 
over instance lifetime). If you can afford to run your cluster on SSD-backed 
instances, you won't have a problem though :)

I have no exact details for a cost comparison, but this also depends on your 
requirements and workload. Riak is pretty easy to run and has features, 
DynamoDB does not offer (e.g. we needed key expiration). On the other hand, 
DynamoDB is pretty fast and very steady performance wise. But since you pay for 
throughput it can get quite expensive very quickly.


Best

Sebastian


[0] 
http://tisba.de/2013/04/02/why-you-should-consider-updating-and-patching-your-riak/

On 04.04.2013, at 15:06, David Koblas  wrote:

> Spent some time with the AWS folks the other day and was getting sold on 
> using DynamoDB for some of our large Key Value store needs. However given the 
> read/write economics of DynamoDB vs. Instance+Storage costs on Riak I was 
> wondering if anybody has done a good thinking around where the cost 
> inflections points are?
> 
> Also before I go and benchmark things how does Riak perform with 2B entries 
> which are < 1K in size, when I last did the benchmarks - just before 1.0 - 
> there were a few issues.
> 
> Thanks,
> David
> 
> 
> 
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

