---
title: "Re: Riak node down after ssd failure"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-03-19T09:33:50-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13845"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13843"
author_name: "Evan Vigil-McClanahan"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-03-19T09:33:50-07:00
---


This is also an option. If you're running AAE, it will speed up the
repair process, so you likely don't need to do a manual repair.

On Wed, Mar 19, 2014 at 6:13 AM, Sajner, Daniel G  wrote:
> Hi.
>
>
>
> I've had success replacing the server with the same name/ip and the
> identical configuration of the previous server (minus the data). At that
> point start riak and join the node back into the cluster from the new
> server. This will start a bunch of transfers of meta data to get the empty
> node to know about the data is should have.
>
>
>
> At that point you could wait for read repairs to eventually repopulate the
> node (not a great idea) or force a read repair.
> http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/ops/running/recovery/repairing-partitions/
>
>
>
> Regards,
>
> Dan
>
>
>
>
>
> From: riak-users [mailto:riak-users-boun...@lists.basho.com] On Behalf Of
> Edgar Veiga
> Sent: Tuesday, March 18, 2014 5:20 PM
> To: Evan Vigil-McClanahan
> Cc: riak-users@lists.basho.com
> Subject: Re: Riak node down after ssd failure
>
>
>
> Thanks Evan!
>
>
>
> Is it really imperative that the name should be != than the old one?
>
>
>
> Best regards
>
> --
> Sent from my iPhone
>
>
>
> On Tue, Mar 18, 2014 at 8:47 PM, Evan Vigil-McClanahan
>  wrote:
>
> Probably the easiest thing would be to wait until the new machine is
> ready to join, add it with a nodename distinct from that of the last
> one, and force-replace the new node for the old, dead one.
>
> On Tue, Mar 18, 2014 at 1:03 PM, Edgar Veiga  wrote:
>> Hello all!
>>
>> I have a 6 machine cluster with leveldb as backend, using riak 1.4.8
>> version.
>>
>> Today, the ssd of one of the machine's has failed and is not recoverable,
>> so
>> I have already ordered a new one that should arrive by thursday!
>>
>> In the meanwhile what should I do? I have no backup of the old ssd data...
>> Should I remove the machine of the cluster and when the new ssd arrives
>> join
>> the machine again?
>>
>> Best regards!
>>
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>
>
>
>
> Confidentiality Notice: This electronic message transmission, including any
> attachment(s), may contain confidential, proprietary, or privileged
> information from Chemical Abstracts Service ("CAS"), a division of the
> American Chemical Society ("ACS"). If you have received this transmission in
> error, be advised that any disclosure, copying, distribution, or use of the
> contents of this information is strictly prohibited. Please destroy all
> copies of the message and contact the sender immediately by either replying
> to this message or calling 614-447-3600.

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

