---
title: "Re: How to increase Riak write performance for sequential	alpha-numeric keys"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2016-05-05T17:04:23-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg17303"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg17302"
author_name: "Matthew Von-Maszewski"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2016-05-05T17:04:23-07:00
---


I failed to mention these links that give additional details concerning the 
timed grooming feature:

discussion of the timed grooming feature is here:

 https://github.com/basho/leveldb/wiki/mv-timed-grooming

discussion of the timed grooming fix and disable is here:

 https://github.com/basho/leveldb/wiki/mv-timed-grooming2


> On May 5, 2016, at 7:59 PM, Matthew Von-Maszewski  wrote:
> 
> Alex,
> 
> I am making a guess. I would be better able to support this guess with data 
> from leveldb LOG files of one server.
> 
> The performance difference between the sequential keys and the reverse of the 
> sequential keys is informative. The reverse ordered keys essentially become 
> more like "random keys" within the leveldb key space. Overtime, they 
> disperse to different .sst table files scattering the "focal point" of the 
> read-before-write operations. The sequential keys are keeping all newly 
> written data within the same .sst table file, i.e. the same "focal point".
> 
> And there is a new tuning called "timed grooming" in the Riak 2.1.3 and 2.1.4 
> releases that has a bug. The bug can cause more frequent compaction cycles 
> than intended for 2.1.3 and 2.1.4 under some work loads. Your particular 
> sequential keys might be such a load. This is what the LOG files would 
> indicate. The biggest impact of more frequent compaction cycles is that the 
> Linux page cache and leveldb block caches get invalidated more often causing 
> longer read cycles to determine "nothing is there" in the read-before-write 
> operation of Riak.
> 
> Your higher ring size is likely not helping, but there is math that can prove 
> or disprove this assumption. And again, the base numbers are within the LOG 
> files.
> 
> We do have an eleveldb patch release available. You would have to manual 
> install it on each of the nodes. The patch disables the timed grooming and 
> contains some critical bug fixes that lead to the Riak 2.1.4 release. You 
> would need to tell me which operating system package you originally download 
> for Riak, then I can send an appropriate link.
> 
> Matthew
> 
> 
>> On May 5, 2016, at 10:11 AM, alexc155  wrote:
>> 
>> Hi,
>> 
>> Thanks for your reply.
>> 
>> I don't think that write\_once is going to work for us as we have to
>> periodically update the data (although if we remove the data before
>> re-inserting it, would that work?)
>> 
>> Why does read-before-write slow down new writes so much?
>> 
>> Some new information we've found - it seems that if we write the data and
>> then update it, we get fast speeds too. It's just the initial write of the
>> data that is slow.
>> 
>> So why is writing sequential keys so much slower than updating them or
>> writing non-sequential keys?
>> 
>> 
>> 
>> --
>> View this message in context: 
>> http://riak-users.197444.n3.nabble.com/How-to-increase-Riak-write-performance-for-sequential-alpha-numeric-keys-tp4034219p4034225.html
>> Sent from the Riak Users mailing list archive at Nabble.com.
>> 
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> 


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

