---
title: "Re: Riak LevelDB Deletion Problem"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-07-14T10:02:20-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16292"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16291"
author_name: "Antonio Teixeira"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-07-14T10:02:20-07:00
---


Hi Matthew,

We will be removing close to 1 TB of data from the node , and since we are
short on "disk space" when we saw that the disk space was actually rising
we halted the data removal.

Now according to some docs I have read, if after a deletion ( a few seconds
) we make a .get() it force the release of the diskspace , is this true ?

For us it's not possible to move data to another node, is there any way
even manually to release the space ? or at least to force :
" The actual release occurs significantly later (days, weeks, or even
months later) when the tombstone record merges with the actual data in a
background compaction."

Thanks for all the help,
Antonio


2015-07-14 17:43 GMT+01:00 Matthew Von-Maszewski :

> Antonio,
>
> Here is a detailed discussion of the Riak / leveldb delete scenario:
>
> https://github.com/basho/leveldb/wiki/mv-aggressive-delete
>
> Pay close attention to the section titled “Update April 6, 2014”. This
> explains why as much as 4.2G bytes per vnode might remain within leveldb
> after deleting all keys. There is no mechanism to override the logic that
> causes the disk space retention.
>
> One workaround is to use Riak’s handoff mechanism to transfer vnodes from
> one physical server to another. The vnode transfer will remove all
> deletion tombstones on the destination. The last step of the transfer then
> deletes all leveldb files on the original server, recovering the space.
>
> Matthew
>
>
>
> > On Jul 14, 2015, at 12:32 PM, Antonio Teixeira 
> wrote:
> >
> > Hello,
> >
> > We have been migrating our Riak Database to another infrastructure
> through a "streaming" process and right now we should have somewhere around
> 2Gb of free space the Hard Disk, however those 2Gb are still being used by
> Riak. After some research I believe the problem is the Objects are only
> being marked for deletion and not actually deleted at runtime. What we need
> is a way to aggressively deleted those keys or some way to force Riak to
> delete those marked keys and subsequently release the Disk Space. The Riak
> version we are using is v2.0.2
> > \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> > riak-users mailing list
> > riak-users@lists.basho.com
> > http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

