---
title: "Configuring Riak 2.0"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-11-04T09:40:19-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12835"
author_name: "Joe DeVivo"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-11-04T09:40:19-08:00

---


Riak Users,

We've been kind of tiptoeing around the configuration changes for Riak 2.0. 
Mostly it was because I wanted to have a dramatic reveal at RICON|West. Now 
that you can see that here (http://ricon.io/west2013.html Day 1, Track 1, 
7:08:22), it's time for me to talk to you all about configuration.

A lot of what I want to say, I've already written in a cool blog post with 
fancy features like "syntax highlighting" and "hyperlinks". I encourage you to 
read my story here: https://github.com/joedevivo/ricon/blob/master/cuttlefish.md

The biggest issue I have with the state of configuration in the 2.0 tech 
preview is the lack of documentation. Changing how we do configuration is going 
to affect almost all of the documentation. We're working on that already, but 
in the interim, here's a gist of mappings from old config style to new style: 
https://gist.github.com/joedevivo/7305410 I'll do my best to keep updating that 
gist as we make changes to the configuration settings.

As you thumb through that gist, please note that some variable names in the 2.0 
configuration file may change before release. Cuttlefish makes changing the 
names of these variables easy, and some names were just transposed from their 
Erlang counterparts. If you have a better name for some setting in Riak, please 
reach out to me. While I can't promise to use your suggestion, I'm always 
interested in how people are actually thinking about configuration.

Stay rad,
--joe

---
Software Engineer at Basho
@joedevivo
jdev...@basho.com
irc: joedevivo
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

