---
title: "RE: crash in riak-cs"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-10-15T17:19:50-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16667"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16666"
author_name: "Gautam Pulla"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-10-15T17:19:50-07:00
---


Thanks for the reply, I was able to work-around the problem based on your 
suggestion.

FYI: We're using the Amazon C# client and the problem was caused by specifying 
an empty string as the "delimiter" for the ListObjects function call. I 
switched to null & it works without issues now.

Regards,
Gautam

-----Original Message-----
From: Shunichi Shinohara [mailto:sh...@basho.com] 
Sent: Thursday, October 15, 2015 1:51 AM
To: Gautam Pulla 
Cc: riak-users@lists.basho.com
Subject: Re: crash in riak-cs

Hi Gautam,

Hmm... It seems like a bug. List objects fails when "delimiter" query parameter 
is empty like:
 http://foo.s3.amazonaws.com/?delimiter=

May I ask some questions?
- What client (s3cmd, s3curl, java sdk, etc...) do you use?
- Can you control the query parameter and remove it when its value is empty?

Thanks,
Shino

2015-10-15 2:44 GMT+09:00 Gautam Pulla :
> Hello,
>
>
>
> I’m seeing the following error in the riak-cs logs on sending a 
> list-buckets request. The request fails as well. Is this a known/fixed 
> issue? I am running version 2.0.1-1.
>
>
>
> 2015-10-10 18:53:55.828 [error] <0.768.5> CRASH REPORT Process 
> <0.768.5> with 1 neighbours exited with reason: bad argument in call 
> to 
> binary:match(<<"2011/06/10/12/clicks\_tdpartnerid\_v2\_2011-06-10T12\_2011
> -06-10T13.log.gz">>,
> [<<>>]) in riak\_cs\_list\_objects\_utils:extract\_group/2 line 197 in
> gen\_fsm:terminate/7 line 622
>
>
>
> Thanks,
>
> Gautam
>
>
>
> PS: This is a re-send of my first message sent on 10/10. The original 
> message appears delayed in moderation, so I’m resending after joining 
> the list.
>
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

