---
title: "Re: rocksdb (fb leveldb fork) as riak backend?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-01-27T18:04:24-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13506"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13505"
author_name: "Alexander Sicular"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-01-27T18:04:24-08:00
---


Awesome. I knew there were basho optimizations. Just wondering if there was 
parity. Cool!


@siculars
http://siculars.posthaven.com

Sent from my iRotaryPhone

> On Jan 27, 2014, at 17:53, Matthew Von-Maszewski  wrote:
> 
> 
> P.S. I failed to include the link to the wiki page that discusses each of 
> Basho's optimizations for the Riak environment:
> 
> https://github.com/basho/leveldb/wiki
> 
> 
>> On Jan 27, 2014, at 8:49 PM, Matthew Von-Maszewski  
>> wrote:
>> 
>> Basho's leveldb requirements have lead to different optimizations. Facebook 
>> has a captive hardware environment and usage case that does not match ours. 
>> I am not saying their changes are better or worse, only different.
>> 
>> Basho needs:
>> 
>> - multiple databases running simultaneously: 6 to 64
>> - support for slow solitary SATA drives all the way to rocking' fast 
>> FusionIO PCI arrays
>> - fast disaster recovery / repair
>> - aggressive delete logic to help remove large chunks of deleted data now 
>> instead of next year
>> - (and a few things still not unleashed in Riak 2.0)
>> 
>> So our compaction strategy has come a long way: from Google's original 
>> single thread to a thread pool that can run simultaneous companions on the 
>> same database as well as other databases. We have a dedicated thread that 
>> constantly computes the speed of the local array and gradually manipulates 
>> each write request to prevent Google's designed stall … maximizing total 
>> throughput for the simultaneous databases while maintaining a constant user 
>> experience. And in between all that, we have retuned the skip list, the 
>> bloom filter, and integrated Intel's hardware CRC assembly code.
>> 
>> That is what meets Riak's needs. 
>> 
>> Matthew
>> 
>> 
>>> On Jan 27, 2014, at 6:05 PM, Alexander Sicular  wrote:
>>> 
>>> Hey Basho gang,
>>> 
>>> Have you all taken any sort of look at FB's leveldb fork, rocksdb, 
>>> http://rocksdb.org/? Just watching Dhruba's video it seems like it may be a 
>>> useful upgrade, 
>>> https://code.facebook.com/videos/174548089418739/rocksdb-a-high-performance-embedded-key-value-store-for-flash-storage-data-scale/.
>>> The main talking points seems to be that rocksdb upgrades leveldb such 
>>> that it is more efficient when storing data more than system ram, has more 
>>> efficient access patternsto take advantage of ssd's and has a better 
>>> compaction story.
>>> 
>>> Care to share your thoughts?
>>> 
>>> Thanks,
>>> 
>>> -Alexander Sicular
>>> 
>>> @siculars
>>> 
>>> 
>>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>>> riak-users mailing list
>>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> 

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

