---
title: "Re: Node riak@192.168.56.101 is not reachable in riak-yokozuna-0.10"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-11-05T05:22:17-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12845"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12755"
author_name: "Luke Bakken"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-11-05T05:22:17-08:00
---


Hi Houm,

Based on your previous emails, you have riak-yokozuna installed in
/home/houm/riak-yokozuna. If you use the tech preview, it will be installed
system-wide and won't overwrite your existing installation (which is
probably a good thing).

I would recommend installing the tech preview. The configuration file will
be at /etc/riak/riak.conf (or /usr/local/etc/riak/riak.conf on FreeBSD)

--
Luke Bakken
CSE
lbak...@basho.com


On Mon, Nov 4, 2013 at 6:07 PM,  wrote:

> Hello Luke Bakken,
>
> Thank you, but I used riak-yokozuna,
> Could I use Riak's source to overwrite riak yokozuna?
>
> Houm
>
> > Houm,
> >
> > Unfortunately that's a known bug that I forgot about in older versions of
> > the code. Could you archive and attach the log/ directory as well?
> >
> > Basho has released a tech preview of 2.0.0 that you can download here:
> > http://docs.basho.com/riak/2.0.0pre5/downloads/
> >
> > It may behave better on your systems.
> >
> > Thanks for providing all of this info! We'll get it figured out.
> >
> > --
> > Luke Bakken
> > CSE
> > lbak...@basho.com
> >
> >
> > On Thu, Oct 31, 2013 at 7:44 PM,  wrote:
> >
> >> Hello Luke Bakken,
> >>
> >> I run riak-debug and got the follow error.
> >> -------------------------------------------------
> >> .....................EE...E............Ecat:
> >> /home/houm/riak-yokozuna/rel/riak/bin/../etc/app.config: No such file or
> >> directory
> >> bin/riak-debug: line 407: [: .: unary operator expected
> >> ls: cannot access /riak\_core\_ring\*: No such file or directory
> >> E.Ecat: /home/houm/riak-yokozuna/rel/riak/bin/../etc/app.config: No such
> >> file or directory
> >> bin/riak-debug: line 453: [: .: unary operator expected
> >> ..
> >>
> /home/houm/riak-yokozuna/rel/riak/localhost.localdomain-riak-debug.tar.gz
> >> -------------------------------------------------
> >> but the compressed archive was outputed, hoping it is useful.
> >>
> >> Houm
> >>
> >> > Houm,
> >> >
> >> > On the node that you run riak-admin cluster join riak at
> >> > 192.168.56.101could you please run
> >> > riak-debug and attach the compressed archive in your response? If it's
> >> too
> >> > big, contact me directly and we'll work on getting the file from you.
> >> >
> >> > --
> >> > Luke Bakken
> >> > CSE
> >> > lbak...@basho.com
> >>
> >
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

