---
title: "Re: Riak on SAN"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-10-03T06:58:11-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12489"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12485"
author_name: "Guido Medina"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-10-03T06:58:11-07:00
---


If using LevelDB backend, LevelDB has a nice compression (snappy), 
including CRC checks and all sort of data corruption checks, I have read 
on this mail list people that has required to disable snappy compression 
because it renders ZFS useless (not much to compress after that)


Hence, it is kind of related to using ZFS or not, if you go for ZFS 
whatever variant you will have to support two sub-systems, if you let 
LevelDB snappy compression on, you won't have to worry about it.


As for backup, Basho provides a sort of cluster-to-cluster replication 
tool, we built our own in Java, making backups per storage on every node 
won't make much sense due to CAP/distributed nature, replicating the 
keys to another cluster is what will make sense.


Hope that helps and is understandable,

Guido.

On 03/10/13 13:54, Pedram Nimreezi wrote:
Not sure what ZFS has to do with snappy compression, as it's a file 
system not a compression algorithm..
feature wise, ZFS is quite possibly the most enterprise file system 
around, including advanced data corruption prevention and remote 
backing up..


This would be a viable option in BSD/Solaris environments, at least 
for making snapshots.

Might make a nice write up for the Basho blog..

Backups for riak I think require a bit more consideration then file 
system snapshot send,
and should include provisions for transferring data to smaller/larger 
clusters, transfer

ring ownerships properly, etc.


On Thu, Oct 3, 2013 at 7:15 AM, Guido Medina > wrote:


 And for ZFS? I wouldn't recommend it, after Riak 1.4 snappy
 LevelDB compression does a nice job, why take the risk of yet
 another not so enterprise ready compression algorithms.

 I could be wrong though,

 Guido.


 On 03/10/13 12:11, Guido Medina wrote:

 I have heard some SAN's horrors stories too, Riak nodes are so
 cheap that I don't see the point in even having any mirror on the
 node, here my points:

 1. Erlang interprocess communication brings some network usage,
 why yet another network usage on replicating the data? If the
 whole idea of Riak is have your data replicated in different
 nodes.
 2. If a node goes down or die for whatever reason, bring up
 another node and rebuild it.
 3. If you want to really replicate your cluster Riak offers the
 enterprise replication which I'm quite sure will be less
 expensive than a SAN and will warranty to have your cluster
 ready to go somewhere else as a backup.
 4. I would even go further, SSDs are so cheap and Riak nodes are
 so cheap now adays that I would even build a cluster using
 RAID 0 or RAID 5 SSDs (yes, no mirror with RAID 1, if too
 afraid, RAID 5), that will have a great impact on
 performance. Again, if something goes wrong with 1 node,
 refer to point 2.

 SANs and all those "legacy" backup and replication IMHO are meant
 for other products, like an Oracle money eater DB server.

 HTH,

 Guido.

 On 03/10/13 12:00, Brian Akins wrote:

 So, call me naive, but couldn't ZFS be used as Heinze suggested?

 I have some SAN horror stories - both operationally and from an
 economic perspective.


 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
 riak-users mailing list
 riak-users@lists.basho.com 
 http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com





 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
 riak-users mailing list
 riak-users@lists.basho.com 
 http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com




--
/\* Sincerely
--------------------------------------------------------------
Pedram Nimreezi - Chief Technology Officer \*/

// The hardest part of design … is keeping features out. - Donald Norman




\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

