---
title: "Re: Does riak control work?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-09-14T23:07:37-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12260"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12210"
author_name: "David Montgomery"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-09-14T23:07:37-07:00
---


PS

using fqdn node not work as well for riak name

root@ip-10-234-223-183:/etc/riak# riak start
riak failed to start within 15 seconds,
see the output of 'riak console' for more information.
If you want to wait longer, set the environment variable
WAIT\_FOR\_ERLANG to the number of seconds to wait.
root@ip-10-234-223-183:/etc/riak# riak console
Node 'r...@ip-10-234-223-183.eu-west-1.compute.internal' not responding to
pings.
config is OK
Exec: /usr/lib/riak/erts-5.9.1/bin/erlexec -boot
/usr/lib/riak/releases/1.4.2/riak -config
/etc/riak/app.config -pa
/usr/lib/riak/lib/basho-patches -args\_file /etc/riak/vm.args --
console
Root: /usr/lib/riak
Erlang R15B01 (erts-5.9.1) [source] [64-bit] [smp:1:1] [async-threads:64]
[kernel-poll:true]

/usr/lib/riak/lib/os\_mon-2.2.9/priv/bin/memsup: Erlang has closed.
 Erlang
has closed

{"Kernel pid
terminated",application\_controller,"{application\_start\_failure,riak\_core,{shutdown,{riak\_core\_app,start,[normal,[]]}}}"}

Crash dump was written to: /var/log/riak/erl\_crash.dump
Kernel pid terminated (application\_controller)
({application\_start\_failure,riak\_core,{shutdown,{riak\_core\_app,start,[normal,[]]}}})
root@ip-10-234-223-183:/etc/riak#






Will older versions of riak work?


















On Mon, Sep 9, 2013 at 6:17 PM, David Montgomery
wrote:

> I am using the lastest ubuntu deb package.....
>
>
>
> https://localhost:8069/admin
>
> I get page not found
>
> The connection was reset
>
> The connection to the server was reset while the page was
> loading.
>
> The site could be temporarily unavailable or too busy. Try again in a few
> moments.
> If you are unable to load any pages, check your computer's network
> connection.
> If your computer or network is protected by a firewall or proxy, make
> sure
> that Firefox is permitted to access the Web.
>
>
>
> Is riak running on the port? Yup
>
> root@ubuntu-VirtualBox:/etc/riak# lsof -i :8069
> COMMAND PID USER FD TYPE DEVICE SIZE/OFF NODE NAME
> beam.smp 1376 riak 21u IPv4 3238716 0t0 TCP localhost:8069
> (LISTEN)
>
>
> I followed the instructions here
> http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/ops/advanced/riak-control/
>
> %% https is a list of IP addresses and TCP ports that the Riak
> %% HTTPS interface will bind.
> {https, [{ "127.0.0.1", 8069 }]},
>
> %% Set to false to disable the admin panel.
> {enabled, true},
>
>
>
>
> So...what could be wrong? Yes..I restarted riak after I make the change
> to the config file.
>
> Thanks
>
>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

