---
title: "Re: riak 2.1.1 : Erlang crash dump"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-10-01T14:07:56-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16594"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16577"
author_name: "Jon Meredith"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-10-01T14:07:56-07:00
---


It looks like Riak was unable to allocate 4Gb of memory. You may have to
reduce the amount of memory allocated for leveldb from the default 70%, try
setting this in your /etc/riak/riak.conf file

leveldb.maximum\_memory.percent = 50

The memory footprint for Riak should stabilize after a few hours and on
servers with smaller amounts of memory, the 30% left over may not be enough.

Please let us know how you get on.

On Wed, Sep 30, 2015 at 5:31 PM Girish Shankarraman <
gshankarra...@vmware.com> wrote:

> I have 7 node cluster for riak with a ring\_size of 128.
>
> \*System Details:\*
> Each node is a VM with 16GB of memory.
> The backend is using leveldb.
> sys\_system\_architecture : <<"x86\_64-unknown-linux-gnu">>
> sys\_system\_version : <<"Erlang R16B02\_basho8 (erts-5.10.3) [source]
> [64-bit] [smp:4:4] [async-threads:64] [kernel-poll:true] [frame-pointer]">>
> riak\_control\_version : <<"2.1.1-0-g5898c40">>
> cluster\_info\_version : <<"2.0.2-0-ge231144">>
> yokozuna\_version : <<"2.1.0-0-gcb41c27”>>
>
> \*Scenario:\*
> We have up to 400-1000 json records being written/sec. Each record might
> be a few 100 bytes.
> I see the following crash message in the erlang logs after a few hours of
> processing. Any suggestions on what could be going on here ?
>
> ===== Tue Sep 29 20:20:56 UTC 2015
> [os\_mon] memory supervisor port (memsup): Erlang has closed^M
> [os\_mon] cpu supervisor port (cpu\_sup): Erlang has closed^M
> ^M
> Crash dump was written to: /var/log/riak/erl\_crash.dump^M
> eheap\_alloc: Cannot allocate 3936326656 bytes of memory (of type "heap").^M
>
> Also tested running this at 50GB per Riak Node(VM) and things work but
> memory keeps growing, so throwing hardware at it doesn’t seem very scalable.
>
> Thanks,
>
> — Girish Shankarraman
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

