---
title: "Cluster Leave Behaviour Appears Dependent On Node Leaving?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-03-27T04:27:19-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10601"
author_name: "Ralph Williams"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-03-27T04:27:19-07:00

---


We have a six node riak cluster and have been testing the situation where one 
node is removed using the "riak-admin cluster leave" command.

Depending on which server is requested to leave, a different plan can result. 
The difference lies in the amount of data handoffs occurring between the nodes 
which remain in the cluster.

Is there a simple explanation for this?

I have already read 
http://lists.basho.com/pipermail/riak-users\_lists.basho.com/2012-April/008195.html

The information included in this email and any files transmitted with it may 
contain information that is confidential and it must not be used by, or its 
contents or attachments copied or disclosed, to persons other than the intended 
addressee. If you have received this email in error, please notify BJSS. In the 
absence of written agreement to the contrary BJSS' relevant standard terms of 
contract for any work to be undertaken will apply. Please carry out virus or 
such other checks as you consider appropriate in respect of this email. BJSS do 
not accept responsibility for any adverse effect upon your system or data in 
relation to this email or any files transmitted with it. BJSS Limited, a 
company registered in England and Wales (Company Number 2777575), VAT 
Registration Number 613295452, Registered Office Address, First Floor, Coronet 
House, Queen Street, Leeds, LS1 2TW
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

