---
title: "Re: find big object crashing riak"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-08-28T22:28:58-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12150"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12149"
author_name: "Simon Effenberg"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-08-28T22:28:58-07:00
---


allow\_multi is on and I looked into the graphs.. we have had some
siblings while having big objects but its "only" a max of 35 siblings
found within one GET request. But I can't say if this is "one" GET
request having 35 siblings or 35 GET requests each having 1
sibling.

Also the question: in the erl\_crash.dmp I have almost all data at the
end (> 500MB) which is a huge multiline but with reaaaaaallyyy long
lines of hexadecimal numbers like

36F6465223A223730303531393935227D2C7B226163636F756E74223A22313

can I get therein (crash dump file) any hint about the object which
caused the crash?

Cheers
Simon


On Wed, 28 Aug 2013 19:05:23 -0400
Sam Elliott  wrote:

> Simon,
> 
> This sounds like it might be some kind of sibling explosion. Do you have 
> allow\_mult=true set on any buckets? If so, are you resolving every single 
> time you read the object? What's your regular object size (before you started 
> seeing big objects)?
> 
> There's some more info in our docs [1] - search for "siblings" for the stat 
> names associated with them that might give you some information.
> 
> Sam
> 
> [1] http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/ops/running/stats-and-monitoring/ 
> 
> -- 
> Sam Elliott
> Engineer
> sam.elli...@basho.com (mailto:sam.elli...@basho.com)
> --
> 
> 
> On Wednesday, 28 August 2013 at 6:50PM, Simon Effenberg wrote:
> 
> > Hi,
> > 
> > we have suddenly (regarding to riak stats) really big objects (100th
> > percentile of object size) of 400MB to 900MB.
> > 
> > We have no clue from where or how this could be.. is it somehow
> > possible to identify them easily?
> > 
> > Cheers
> > Simon
> > 
> > \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> > riak-users mailing list
> > riak-users@lists.basho.com (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
> > http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> > 
> 
> 
> 


-- 
Simon Effenberg | Site Ops Engineer | mobile.international GmbH
Fon: + 49-(0)30-8109 - 7173
Fax: + 49-(0)30-8109 - 7131

Mail: seffenb...@team.mobile.de
Web: www.mobile.de

Marktplatz 1 | 14532 Europarc Dreilinden | Germany


Geschäftsführer: Malte Krüger
HRB Nr.: 18517 P, Amtsgericht Potsdam
Sitz der Gesellschaft: Kleinmachnow 

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

