---
title: "Re: Partitions placement"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-03-18T05:35:31-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13833"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13816"
author_name: "Ciprian Manea"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-03-18T05:35:31-07:00
---


Hi Daniel,

target\_n\_val can be changed at any time and will take effect at the first
iteration of the claim algorithm [0] (which usually runs whenever you
add/remove nodes from the cluster via the riak-admin command)

On default settings, Riak is able to replicate data to distinct nodes in
all clusters with more than 3 nodes.

[0]
https://github.com/basho/riak\_core/blob/develop/src/riak\_core\_claim.erl#L429


Thanks,
Ciprian


On Mon, Mar 17, 2014 at 5:50 PM, Daniel Iwan  wrote:

> Hi Ciprian
>
> Thanks for reply
> I'm assuming 'overlay' you are talking about are vnodes?
> When creating cluster and joining 2 nodes to first node (3-node cluster)
> there should be possible distributing partitions to guarantee 3 copies are
> on distinct machines. Simple sequential vnode assignment would do.
> Then I guess it's a matter of calculating distances between indexes within
> each of nodes. Partitions that do not meet that criteria should be moved
> when scaling up.
>
> Scaling up in my opinion should be easier as more nodes in the cluster,
> sequential partitions are more spread horizontally so probability that a
> server will hold sequential partitions decreases.
>
> With 3 servers it should be guaranteed that at least 2 copies are on
> distinct servers. On 5 servers should be guaranteed 3 copies are on
> distinct
> servers. etc.
>
> Does Riak give such guarantees?
>
> Can target\_n\_val be changed later. What are the implications? Is there a
> description what algorithm will be used for partition placement?
>
> Cheers
> Daniel
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
> --
> View this message in context:
> http://riak-users.197444.n3.nabble.com/Partitions-placement-tp4030664p4030679.html
> Sent from the Riak Users mailing list archive at Nabble.com.
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

