---
title: "Re: RIAK Search - Active Anti-Entropy"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-01-09T10:55:47-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15465"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15462"
author_name: "Nirav Shah"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-01-09T10:55:47-08:00
---


Hi Luke,
Let me rephrase it.

1. We currently have 2i based searches in our code. We are trying to move it to 
Solr as per Basho’s recommendation


2. Toachieve this we created Solr schema. But when we tried it in dev, we 
noticed Solr indexes only gets created for the new data and not for existing 
data (capturedprior to enabling Solr search)


3. Tobe able to implement Solr search successfully, we need to make sure that 
Solr indexesexisting data in current RIAK bucket. 



Thanks,Nirav
 
 

 From: Luke Bakken 
 To: Nirav Shah  
Cc: "riak-users@lists.basho.com"  
 Sent: Friday, January 9, 2015 10:22 AM
 Subject: Re: RIAK Search - Active Anti-Entropy
 
Hi Nirav,

If I'm reading your description correctly - you'd like your secondary
index data to be automatically migrated to Riak Search?

--
Luke Bakken
Engineer
lbak...@basho.com



On Wed, Jan 7, 2015 at 10:36 PM, Nirav Shah  wrote:
> Hi Luke,
> Can you please advice. ?
>
> "I have a production database which is fairly large and uses Secondary
> Indexes. I was planning to move away from Secondary Index to RIAK
> Search(SOLR). Can someone please let me know if Active Anti-Entropy will
> take care of ensuring that all the existing data that i currently have in
> Production will be automatically synced up once i move to RIAK Search and i
> should be able to search on those fields. If not, is there any
> configuration/Settings that can help me achieve this? "
>
>
> Regards,
> Nirav


 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

