---
title: "Re: Riaktor: a Promise-based async API for Riak"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-05-23T10:34:49-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11157"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg11129"
author_name: "Mark Phillips"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-05-23T10:34:49-07:00
---


This looks awesome, Jon. Keep us posted on where it goes. And don't be
scared to submit a CFP about this for RICON West [1]. :)

Mark

[1] ricon.io/west.html

On Tue, May 21, 2013 at 1:21 AM, Joshua Muzaaya  wrote:
> Thanks for this. I am going to check it out, and so should the others.
>
>
> On Mon, May 20, 2013 at 10:34 PM, Jon Brisbin  wrote:
>>
>> I'm stretching the legs on our new async framework Reactor [1] and I
>> created a quite small helper class to enable efficient async operation of
>> the official Java client. I'm calling it Riaktor (even though there's
>> apparently an old Ruby gem of the same name that hasn't been updated in
>> several years).
>>
>> https://github.com/jbrisbin/riaktor
>>
>> Since it uses Reactor, it also has OOTB Groovy love, which includes using
>> Closures as callbacks, etc… There's basically no documentation yet; only
>> what's in the tests. But if you're brave enough to try out something
>> completely new, I would love to get your feedback! :)
>>
>> I've load-tested this to over 150,000 ops/sec using 2 threads via
>> Disruptor-based RingBufferDispatchers. Reactor itself can do 15M ops/sec on
>> my three-year-old MacBook Pro so the bottleneck is going to be the network
>> and your Riak cluster. But assuming you've got the bandwidth to handle it,
>> Riaktor can push to (and pull from) Riak very efficiently.
>>
>> Once you've got some data in the client, the idea is that you'll want to
>> continue integrating with Reactor's async tools by doing compositions (map,
>> filter, reduce, etc… a la RxJava Observable). That's why Riaktor returns a
>> Promise for almost everything.
>>
>> I'd be interested to get your feedback as it would directly feed back into
>> better Reactor features.
>>
>> [1] - https://github.com/reactor/reactor/
>>
>>
>> Thanks!
>>
>> Jon Brisbin
>> Twitter: @JonBrisbin
>> http://about.me/jonbrisbin
>>
>>
>>
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
>
>
> --
> \*Muzaaya Joshua
> Systems Engineer
> +256774115170\*
> \*"Through it all, i have learned to trust in Jesus. To depend upon His Word"
> \*
>
>
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

