---
title: "Re: node_put_fsm_active maxing out"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-11-06T06:00:50-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16738"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16734"
author_name: "Ted Burghart"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-11-06T06:00:50-08:00
---


I’ve added a comment to https://github.com/basho/riak/issues/789 
, but will follow up here as well.

On 64-bit platforms, HiPE is generally a shaky proposition. On Linux, 
specifically, there are workarounds in the VM to allow it to (hopefully) run 
safely, but it’s somewhat constrained on beefy 64-bit hardware, and unlikely to 
yield significant performance increases in many cases. Turning it off should 
never destabilize the system - it’s turning it on you have to be careful about. 
 I’d be surprised if turning off HiPE was a factor here.

As I noted in the GH issue, there are version inconsistencies in the 
information you included there, and I’m more inclined to focus on that than on 
the VM.

– Ted

> On 5-Nov 2015, at 8:54 PM, Chris Read wrote:
> 
> I had a look at that again this evening after I sent that last email, then 
> looked again at the VM's. The other thing that jumped out at me then was that 
> the system that's been working for the last year has hipe enabled, the 
> problem one does not. My limited understanding of Erlang runtimes feels like 
> that could have something to do with it...
> 
> Chris
> 
> On Thu, Nov 5, 2015 at 6:55 PM, Ted Burghart wrote:
> Hi Chris,
> 
> This is pretty unusual - basho6 just turns on frame pointers, which should 
> have a (likely immeasurable) impact on performance, but otherwise should be 
> really innocuous.
> 
> Along with Doug’s question about what specific OS you’re on, are you sure the 
> change from basho5 to basho6 is the only change in your execution environment?
> 
> – Ted
> 
> Ted Burghart
> Senior Engineer
> Basho Technologies http://www.basho .com
> 
>> On 5-Nov 2015, at 6:21 PM, Chris Read wrote:
>> 
>> Anyone out there?
>> 
>> Here's some more detail on the Erlang builds:
>> 
>> This one works as expected:
>> 
>> sys\_system\_architecture : <<"x86\_64-unknown-linux-gnu">>
>> sys\_system\_version : <<"Erlang R16B02-basho5 (erts-5.10.3) [source] [64-bit] 
>> [smp:8:8] [async-threads:64] [hipe] [kernel-poll:true]">>
>> 
>> This one has the problem:
>> 
>> sys\_system\_architecture : <<"x86\_64-unknown-linux-gnu">>
>> sys\_system\_version : <<"Erlang R16B02\_basho6 (erts-5.10.3) [source-bcd8abb] 
>> [64-bit] [smp:24:24] [async-threads:64] [kernel-poll:true] [frame-pointer]">>
>> 
>> Chris
>> 
>> 
>> On Tue, Nov 3, 2015 at 12:47 PM, Chris Read wrote:
>> Greetings all...
>> 
>> We've been building riak from source for a while, but I've had trouble 
>> getting the 2.1 lines built reliably and so would like to revert back to 
>> using the .deb package. The problem I have is that in our test environment 
>> we always manage to max out node\_put\_fsm\_active under sustained write loads, 
>> and they never drop.
>> 
>> When running riak 2.0.4 on R16B02-basho5 (our current prod version) 
>> everything is working as expected. 
>> 
>> Using the .deb package of 2.0.4 pushes us to R16B02\_basho6, which is where 
>> we see the problem arrive of node\_puts\_fsm\_active going up and never 
>> dropping back own again, even after the write load stops.
>> 
>> Further testing with the riak 2.0.6 2.1.1 .deb packages (both contain 
>> R16B02\_basho8) show the same problem.
>> 
>> Questions I have are:
>> 
>> 1) Anyone else seen this?
>> 2) Is there any way I can see why these FSM's appear to be deadlocked?
>> 
>> Thanks,
>> 
>> Chris
>> 
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com 
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com 
>> 
> 
> 

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

