---
title: "RIak Ruby Client 2.2.0 released"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-05-27T14:29:27-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16162"
author_name: "Bryce Kerley"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-05-27T14:29:27-07:00

---


The Riak Ruby client version 2.2.0 is now available. This gem is an 
officially-supported client for the Riak key-value database, including support 
for key-value objects, buckets, bucket types, bucket properties, Riak 
Search/Yokozuna, secondary indexes, and more.

This version, 2.2.0, is a feature release.

New features:

\* Object-oriented Riak Search (Yokozuna) API.
\* Object-oriented Bucket Properties API.
\* Bucket type properties are readable.
\* Bucket-typed buckets without properties expose properties of bucket type.
\* An interface to get a preflist for Riak KV objects has been added.

Small improvements and changes:

\* In line with recent Riak documentation and implementation changes, `vclock`
 can also be referred to as `causal\_context`.
\* Support for synchronous Riak Search index creation with timeouts has been
 added.

Bug fixes:

\* Accessing a flag in a non-existent CRDT map returns false now.
\* Escaping text in situations that require it is faster, thanks to Jordan
 Goldstein.
\* Loading and storing objects from bucket-typed buckets is more reliable and
 correct thanks to Takeshi Akima.

Updating your applications that pull in the gem directly with Bundler is easy: 
make sure the Gemfile doesn’t exclude 2.2.0, and `bundle update riak-client`. 
Gems and applications that transitively depend on riak-client may have a more 
complex update procedure, or it may be as simple as a bundle update. Make sure 
your tests pass before putting it into production!

Thanks to everyone who has participated in developing, testing, using, and 
improving this gem!

Bryce Kerley
Software Engineer
Basho


signature.asc
Description: Message signed with OpenPGP using GPGMail
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

