---
title: "Re: Erlang crash dump viewer with Riak crash dumps"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-02-12T23:26:57-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15709"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15694"
author_name: "Bryan Hunt"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-02-12T23:26:57-08:00
---


I can't even get the gui to initialize on osx. I've been using the viewer
from R17 with success. I use kerl to maintain multiple erlang versions on
my system.
On 12 Feb 2015 11:16, "Simon Hartley"  wrote:

> I am attempting to use the Erlang crash dump viewer application
> (erl5.9.1\lib\observer-1.1\priv\bin\cdv.bat) to view a crash dump generated
> by Riak 1.4.9
>
>
>
> The app hangs on the message “Processing Timers” and the following output
> is seen in the console:
>
>
>
> =ERROR REPORT==== 12-Feb-2015::11:12:26 ===
>
> Error in process <0.81.0> on node 'cdv@WH5001654' with exit value:
> {badarg,[{erlang,list\_to\_pid,["riak\_kv\_entropy\_manager"],[]},{crashdump\_viewer,'-get\_timers/2-fun-0-',2,[{file,"crashdump\_viewer.erl"},{line,1498}]},{crashdump\_viewer,progress\_map,4,[{file,"crashdump\_viewer.erl"},{line,2585}]}]}
>
>
>
>
>
> =ERROR REPORT==== 12-Feb-2015::11:12:26 ===
>
> Error in process <0.84.0> on node 'cdv@WH5001654' with exit value:
> {badarg,[{erlang,list\_to\_pid,["riak\_core\_capability"],[]},{crashdump\_viewer,'-get\_timers/2-fun-0-',2,[{file,"crashdump\_viewer.erl"},{line,1498}]},{crashdump\_viewer,progress\_map,4,[{file,"crashdump\_viewer.erl"},{line,2585}]}]}
>
>
>
>
>
> =ERROR REPORT==== 12-Feb-2015::11:12:26 ===
>
> Error in process <0.78.0> on node 'cdv@WH5001654' with exit value:
> {badarg,[{erlang,list\_to\_pid,["riak\_core\_vnode\_manager"],[]},{crashdump\_viewer,'-get\_timers/2-fun-0-',2,[{file,"crashdump\_viewer.erl"},{line,1498}]},{crashdump\_viewer,progress\_map,4,[{file,"crashdump\_viewer.erl"},{line,2585}]}]}
>
>
>
>
>
> =ERROR REPORT==== 12-Feb-2015::11:12:26 ===
>
> Error in process <0.83.0> on node 'cdv@WH5001654' with exit value:
> {badarg,[{erlang,list\_to\_pid,["riak\_core\_claimant"],[]},{crashdump\_viewer,'-get\_timers/2-fun-0-',2,[{file,"crashdump\_viewer.erl"},{line,1498}]},{crashdump\_viewer,progress\_map,4,[{file,"crashdump\_viewer.erl"},{line,2585}]}]}
>
>
>
>
>
> It looks very much like the crash dump file is not valid for the viewer
> app, surely this can’t be the case?
>
>
>
> What am I doing wrong?
>
>
>
> \*Simon Hartley\*
>
> Solutions Architect
>
>
>
> Email: simon.hart...@williamhill.com
>
> Skype: \*+44 (0)113 397 6747 <%2B44%20%280%29113%20397%206747>\*
>
> Skype: \*sijomons\*
>
>
>
> \*William Hill Online\*, St. Johns, Merrion St. Leeds, LS2 8LQ
>
> [image: Description: Description: Description:
> cid:image002.png@01CC2FFA.24244CF0]
>
>
> Confidentiality: The contents of this e-mail and any attachments
> transmitted with it are intended to be confidential to the intended
> recipient; and may be privileged or otherwise protected from disclosure. If
> you are not an intended recipient of this e-mail, do not duplicate or
> redistribute it by any means. Please delete it and any attachments and
> notify the sender that you have received it in error. This e-mail is sent
> by a William Hill PLC group company. The William Hill group companies
> include, among others, William Hill PLC (registered number 4212563),
> William Hill Organization Limited (registered number 278208), William Hill
> US HoldCo Inc, WHG (International) Limited (registered number 99191) and
> WHG Trading Limited (registered number 101439). Each of William Hill PLC,
> William Hill Organization Limited is registered in England and Wales and
> has its registered office at Greenside House, 50 Station Road, Wood Green,
> London N22 7TP. William Hill U.S. HoldCo, Inc. is 160 Greentree Drive,
> Suite 101, Dover 19904, Kent, Delaware, United States of America. Each of
> WHG (International) Limited and WHG Trading Limited is registered in
> Gibraltar and has its registered office at 6/1 Waterport Place, Gibraltar.
> Unless specifically indicated otherwise, the contents of this e-mail are
> subject to contract; and are not an official statement, and do not
> necessarily represent the views, of William Hill PLC, its subsidiaries or
> affiliated companies. Please note that neither William Hill PLC, nor its
> subsidiaries and affiliated companies can accept any responsibility for any
> viruses contained within this e-mail and it is your responsibility to scan
> any emails and their attachments. William Hill PLC, its subsidiaries and
> affiliated companies may monitor e-mail traffic data and also the content
> of e-mails for effective operation of the e-mail system, or for security,
> purposes..
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

