---
title: "Escape characters in MapReduce?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-02-10T15:37:47-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10082"
author_name: "Kevin Burton"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-02-10T15:37:47-08:00

---


I have a query that is made from a CorrugatedIron client that looks like:

 

 IRiakClient riakClient = cluster.CreateClient();

 var query = new RiakMapReduceQuery()

 .Inputs(productBucketName)

 .MapJs(m => m.Source(@"function(v,d,a) {" +

 "var p = JSON.parse(v.values[0].data);" + 

 "var r = [];" +

 "if(p.Department != '') {" +

 "var o = {};" +

 "o[p.Department] = 1;" +

 "r.push(o);" +

 "}" +

 "return r;" +

 "}"))

 .ReduceJs(m => m.Source(@"function(v,d,a) {" +

 "var r = {};" +

 "for(var i in v) {" +

 " for(var w in v[i]) {" +

 " if(w in r) r[w] += v[i][w];" +

 " else r[w] = v[i][w];" +

 " }" +

 "}" +

 "return [r];" +

 "}")

 .Keep(true));

 

This query returns the error:

 

Query failed with Riak returned an error. Code '0'. Message:
{"phase":"listkeys","error":"{badmatch,{'EXIT',timeout}}","input":"{cover,[]
,<<\"buyseasons-products\">>}","type":"error","stack":"[{riak\_core\_vnode\_pro
xy,call,2,[{file,\"src/riak\_core\_vnode\_proxy.erl\"},{line,52}]},{riak\_pipe\_v
node,queue\_work\_send,4,[{file,\"src/riak\_pipe\_vnode.erl\"},{line,331}]},{ria
k\_pipe\_vnode,queue\_work\_erracc,6,[{file,\"src/riak\_pipe\_vnode.erl\"},{line,2
79}]},{riak\_kv\_pipe\_listkeys,keysend,4,[{file,\"src/riak\_kv\_pipe\_listkeys.er
l\"},{line,112}]},{riak\_kv\_pipe\_listkeys,keysend\_loop,3,[{file,\"src/riak\_kv
\_pipe\_listkeys.erl\"},{line,89}]},{riak\_kv\_pipe\_listkeys,process,3,[{file,\"
src/riak\_kv\_pipe\_listkeys.erl\"},...]},...]"} - CommunicationError

 

I can read the error and it is a "badmatch" but the rest of the details I
don't know how to use. The purpose of these query is to count all of the
different Departments in the database. I was wondering if this requires that
the Department name be escaped somehow. One of the department names is
'Accessories & Makeup', 'Decorations & Props', or 'Hats, Wigs & Masks'.
Does the '&' need to be escaped when putting it into the database (this
string is a property that is part of the object that is JSON serialized)?
Anything else? If it needs to be escaped and I am using this value as a
secondary index should I set the index before or after the escape is done?
Could this be the source of a "badmatch"?

 

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

