---
title: "Re: On Ubuntu 13.04 / 64"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-06-18T14:44:04-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11300"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg11299"
author_name: "Jared Morrow"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-06-18T14:44:04-07:00
---


Mono,

First, welcome to Riak and the riak community. In regards to erlang, the
Riak package will give you all the erlang bits you need, you shouldn't
install erlang from the Ubuntu repos.

Python is one of the client libraries we provide and support. I'm not an
expert on it, but we do actively support it for new releases.

Installing via dpkg will not do updates for you automatically, but you can
upgrade with it when new releases come out. See the documentation on
Rolling Upgrades here
http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/cookbooks/Rolling-Upgrades/

Hope that helps.

-Jared


On Tue, Jun 18, 2013 at 11:30 PM, mdr  wrote:

> Thanks Jared. Will try it out and let you know how it works.
>
> Am new to Riak. I plan to connect from Python and work with it. I noticed
> there was a Python library to interact with Riak and plan to use it. I
> assume it is pretty well supported.
>
> However is there any requirement that Erlang (base or such) needs to be
> installed? I guess the Riak installation will provide any necessary Erlang
> needed. Or should I install Erlang from Ubuntu repo first?
>
> Finally - with installing with dpkg -i - will updates and patches to Riak
> be
> automatically updated as well when I do an apt-get upgrade? Or will be tuck
> at the version I installed. Is there a way to install updates from Riak
> command line or such?
>
> Thank for your help.
>
> Mono
>
>
>
> --
> View this message in context:
> http://riak-users.197444.n3.nabble.com/On-Ubuntu-13-04-64-tp4028094p4028098.html
> Sent from the Riak Users mailing list archive at Nabble.com.
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

