---
title: "Re: Put failure: too many siblings"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2017-05-26T13:43:01-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg18243"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg18232"
author_name: "Vladyslav Zakhozhai"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2017-05-26T13:43:01-07:00
---


Hi Magnus,

Thank you for the tip and clarification. I'll give it a try.

On Thu, May 25, 2017 at 4:24 PM Magnus Kessler  wrote:

> On 25 May 2017 at 09:39, Vladyslav Zakhozhai 
> wrote:
>
>> Hi,
>>
>> I've been trying to change dvv\_enabled for default bucket type. But this
>> is impossible with riak-admin:
>>
>> riak-admin bucket-type update default '{"props":{"dvv\_enabled":true}}'
>> Error updating bucket type default:
>> no\_default\_update
>>
>> I think that workaround for this is changing default props in riak config:
>>
>> {riak\_core, [
>>
>> {default\_bucket\_props, [
>> {allow\_mult, true},
>> {dvv\_enabled, true}
>> ]},
>> ...
>>
>> (yes, I still use old-style configs)
>>
>> And then I need to restart all riak nodes. Here is two questions:
>> 1. Is this approach correct?
>> 2. Is it ok to have different default\_bucket\_props value on different
>> nodes of the same cluster (in short period of time)?
>>
>> I have to restart 27 riak nodes. There is several billions of keys in
>> riak and each node starts wery slow (20-30-60 min; bitcask backend). So I
>> can't change default\_bucket\_props simultaneously in a such way.
>>
>> I also can change this parameter in riak console, i.e.
>>
>> application:set\_env(riak\_core, default\_bucket\_props, [{dvv\_enabled,
>> true}, ......]). But what I need to do for applying this changes?
>>
>>
> Hi Vladyslav,
>
> The recommended approach for changing the default bucket type's properties
> is to change the settings in `riak.conf` or `advanced.config`. However, I
> just checked that any settings changed through a set\_env call also seem to
> be reflected in the runtime configuration.
>
> If you'd like to try this, I recommend making the change on a test cluster
> first, as I have not verified if this causes issues on a production CS
> cluster. The set\_env call should pass in the complete set of bucket type
> properties, not just the changes. You can try the following (with default
> default bucket-type properties):
>
> riak\_core\_util:rpc\_every\_member\_ann(application, set\_env, [riak\_core,
> default\_bucket\_props,
> [{allow\_mult,false},{big\_vclock,50},{chash\_keyfun,{riak\_core\_util,chash\_std\_keyfun}},{dvv\_enabled,
> false},{dw,quorum},{last\_write\_wins,false},{linkfun,{modfun,riak\_kv\_wm\_link\_walker,mapreduce\_linkfun}},{n\_val,3},{notfound\_ok,true},{old\_vclock,86400},{postcommit,[]},{pr,0},{precommit,[]},{pw,0},{r,quorum},{repl,true},{rw,quorum},{small\_vclock,50},{w,quorum},{write\_once,false},{young\_vclock,20}]],
> 5000).
>
>
> If you go down this route, please don't forget to also make changes to the
> configuration files, in order to these settings to persist across a restart.
>
> Kind Regards,
>
> Magnus
>
> --
> Magnus Kessler
> Client Services Engineer
> Basho Technologies Limited
>
> Registered Office - 8 Lincoln’s Inn Fields London WC2A 3BP Reg 07970431
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

