---
title: "RE: Riak CS Node Shutdown Because it Ran Out Data Space - Unbalanced	With Other Nodes in Cluster"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-08-03T08:56:50-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16343"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16341"
author_name: "Valenti, Anthony"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-08-03T08:56:50-07:00
---


The ring size is actually 64. This is from riak-admin status:

ring\_num\_partitions : 64
ring\_ownership : <<"[{'riak@192.168.40.13',12},\n {'riak@192.168.40.14',12},\n 
{'riak@192.168.40.15',12},\n {'riak@192.168.40.27',16},\n 
{'riak@192.168.40.28',12}]">>
ring\_creation\_size : 64

We added more space to the server to get the service started again, but I'd 
like to get them balanced a little more than they are now.

Thanks,
Anthony

\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*

Inmar Confidentiality Note:  This e-mail and any attachments are confidential 
and intended to be viewed and used solely by the intended recipient.  If you 
are not the intended recipient, be aware that any disclosure, dissemination, 
distribution, copying or use of this e-mail or any attachment is prohibited.  
If you received this e-mail in error, please notify us immediately by returning 
it to the sender and delete this copy and all attachments from your system and 
destroy any printed copies.  Thank you for your cooperation.

Notice of Protected Rights:  The removal of any copyright, trademark, or 
proprietary legend contained in this e-mail or any attachment is prohibited 
without the express, written permission of Inmar, Inc.  Furthermore, the 
intended recipient must maintain all copyright notices, trademarks, and 
proprietary legends within this e-mail and any attachments in their original 
form and location if the e-mail or any attachments are reproduced, printed or 
distributed.

\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

