---
title: "Re: +zdbbl recommended value"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-07-15T08:02:31-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11531"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg11529"
author_name: "Jared Morrow"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-07-15T08:02:31-07:00
---


Guido,

So higher +zdbbl numbers will allow for larger message buffers, but at the
expense of memory usage. We've actually added better wording in the
default vm.args file for 1.4+
https://github.com/basho/riak/blob/master/rel/files/vm.args#L40

So I guess the best answer is trial & error. We added 32MB commented out
in the vm.args, but it can go much higher than that (around 2gb is the true
max). I think most people have found setting it to 32768 helps without too
much memory usage penalty.

-Jared




On Mon, Jul 15, 2013 at 8:38 AM, Guido Medina wrote:

> Hi,
>
> We had an issue in 1.4 where 2i operations were timing out, after going
> through support we were suggested to use "+zdbbl 16384", on the
> "Configuring Riak Docs" it is strongly suggested (unless doc need to be
> re-phrased) it should be higher:
>
> \*Source:\*
> http://docs.basho.com/riakcs/latest/cookbooks/configuration/Configuring-Riak/
>
> At the end of such doc there is the following fragment and we would like
> to know if there is a kind of all situations balanced value and the
> implications:
> Performance & Capacity settings
>
> It is strongly recommended that the following values be set in the Riak
> vm.args configuration file, which is located in the /etc/riak or
> /opt/riak/etc folder.
>
> ## This setting is not present in default Riak installations, so## it should 
> be added. In some cases, a value of 128000 may be## appropriate.
> +zdbbl 96000
> ## This setting is present in default Riak installations, so## its value 
> should be edited.
> -env ERL\_MAX\_PORTS 16384
>
>
>
> Kind regards,
>
> Guido.
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

