---
title: "Re: How to create a Jinterface node and cluster for Java Client	Benchmark with Basho Bench"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-07-23T09:41:05-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11709"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg11665"
author_name: "jerryjyuan"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-07-23T09:41:05-07:00
---


Hi Russell,

Thanks a lot for your helpful feedbacks about my question, and the following
is what you described about the bench\_shim Jinterface wrapper for the RJC:

https://github.com/basho/bench\_shim
The bench\_shim is a JInterface wrapper for the RJC. I don't know if it works
with the current version of the client though. 

I have followed the instructions about building and running the Jinterface
node like below:

 git clone git://github.com/basho/bench\_shim.git
 mvn clean install
 mvn exec:java -Dexec.mainClass="com.basho.riak.bench.BenchShimApp"
-Dexec.classpathScope=runtime -Dexec.args="nodename@host.local MY\_COOKIE"

And based on the sample configuration file "riakc\_java.config":

{riakc\_java\_nodes, [{'j...@riakhost1.lan', {127,0,0,1}, 8087},
{'j...@riakhost2.lan', {127,0,0,1}, 8087}, {'j...@riakhost3.lan',
{127,0,0,1}, 8087}]}.

It is using the following information for each Jinterface node:
{'j...@riakhost1.lan', {127,0,0,1}, 8087}

Then how do we know what the above information is from the above
configurations and running commands ? such as the port 8087, etc. Also why
does the above data use "{127,0,0,1}" instead of dot separation ?

Also inside the above command:
 -Dexec.args="nodename@host.local MY\_COOKIE"

How do we define the information like host.local, etc. ?

I know these questions might be straightforward, but this is my first time
to use bench\_shim, and I am not sure where in the document has some
descriptions about these.

Thanks in advance for all your help and feedbacks.

Thanks.
Jerry




--
View this message in context: 
http://riak-users.197444.n3.nabble.com/How-to-create-a-Jinterface-node-and-cluster-for-Java-Client-Benchmark-with-Basho-Bench-tp4028467p4028513.html
Sent from the Riak Users mailing list archive at Nabble.com.

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

