---
title: "Re: Riak 2.0 Sets"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-12-16T06:30:25-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13256"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13254"
author_name: "Russell Brown"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-12-16T06:30:25-08:00
---


Hi Massimiliano,

Answers (and explanations) inline below:

On 16 Dec 2013, at 12:20, Massimiliano Ciancio  wrote:

> Hi all,
> I've two questions about new Riak 2.0 sets:
> 1) how many elements can be added to a set? Are 1-10-100 millions of
> keys, about 20-30 chars each, reasonable for a single set?

All the new data types in riak 2.0 are really just riak objects. Anything that 
you wouldn’t do with a regular riak key-value, you shouldn’t do with the data 
types.
Think of them as a way for us to implement your merge functions for you, in the 
server. We expose an operations based API (add/remove element) but at the node 
level, this is just a riak object operation, so the full object is read from 
disk, and the update applied, and the result replicated. Smaller objects are 
better. Millions of elements in a Set is a bad idea. If you need big sets like 
that, consider sharding over multiple keys.

> 2) is it possible to do union/intersection/diffs with a riak set?

No, not yet. I’d love to add more Redis-like functionality to our data types in 
future releases.

> Any update about 2.0 availability?

You can get pre5[1] now to start experimenting with. We’re working toward the 
first RC for 2.0 at the moment, expect something final in the first quarter of 
2014.

Cheers

Russell

[1] http://docs.basho.com/riak/2.0.0pre5/downloads/

> Thanks
> MC
> 
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com



signature.asc
Description: Message signed with OpenPGP using GPGMail
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

