---
title: "riak-admin down NODE meaning"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2016-06-16T13:30:06-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg17483"
author_name: "Vladyslav Zakhozhai"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2016-06-16T13:30:06-07:00

---


Hello,

I thought that I know the meaning of command riak-admin down NODE pretty
sure. Till this evening.

So the question is what is explicit meaning of this command?

My opinion was the following. During ownership handoff (maybe hinted
handoffs also, I am not sure) when one of the members of riak cluster fails
handoff stops till riak-admin down FAILED\_NODE\_NAME provided.

For example there is 7 nodes: A, B, C, D, E, F, G. F and G are the nodes
just joined to riak cluster and are awaiting to receive partitions from A,
B and C. During ownership handoff node E fails. In this case all ownership
handoffs may be stopped till riak-admin down E command is provided.

Am I right? Or when I provide such command all ring will be replanned?

Unfortunately description of this command is not clear in official docs.

Today when my cluster plan was almost completed one of the riak nodes
failed (this node was not a participant in ownership handoffs). And then in
riak-admin ring-status I see 5 partitions is awaiting ownership transfer
instead of only one.

It confused me very match. I was looking forward to complete this cluster
plan to join new nodes to cluster. In my case I need to wait for completion
of ownership transfer for this 5 partition that can took 5-7 days (existing
nodes experiencing lack of resources). Unfortunately I do not have so much
time.

Thank you.
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

