---
title: "Re: Riak startup issue"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-01-07T03:32:16-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13362"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13361"
author_name: "John Kavanagh"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-01-07T03:32:16-08:00
---


Hi Alain,

Thanks for the reply ! The exact error message is in the gist mentioned
previously .
I essentially hit the issues references here :
http://comments.gmane.org/gmane.comp.db.riak.user/9102
These looks like packaging issues ,so I nuked the ring dir and Riak would
then start.

Problem solved :-)

Thanks,

John


On Mon, Jan 6, 2014 at 9:23 PM, Alain Rodriguez  wrote:

> Hi John,
>
> What node name are you using in vm.args? If you are using a FQDN, try
> setting it to riak@ instead and see if that resolves the startup
> issue. Either way, what's the exact error being logged by the riak server?
>
> Alain
>
>
> On Mon, Jan 6, 2014 at 4:14 PM, John Kavanagh  wrote:
>
>> Hi all,
>>
>> I am trying to deploy Riak on fresh nodes via cookbooks that have been
>> fully tested and implemented in another environment and am hitting an issue
>> whereby Riak won't start.
>>
>> https://gist.github.com/kavanista/8289711
>>
>> Essentially what I am seeing is :
>> \*\* System running to use fully qualified hostnames \*
>> \*\* Hostname localhost is illegal \*
>>
>> I have the node bootstrapped correctly , the hostname is set to be it's
>> FQDN , everything looks fine.
>>
>> In my app.config I have (address obfuscated of course)
>>
>> {http, [
>> {"192.168.x.x", 8098},
>> {"127.0.0.1", 8098}
>> ]},
>>
>> This works fine , I listen on 127.0.0.1 to facilitate polling stats etc.
>>
>> vm.args uses the nodes FQDN also.
>>
>> Is there anything obvious here that could be causing this ? I just don't
>> get where it's getting localhost from here.
>>
>> Thanks !
>>
>> John
>>
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>
>>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

