---
title: "Re: CRDT on Riak 2.0"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-03-04T07:13:28-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13746"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13744"
author_name: "Sam Elliott"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-03-04T07:13:28-08:00
---


To answer another thing brought up in your message: 

When you say "big enough" set sizes of 10k, be very careful. Riak Data Types 
should not be larger than you would make a normal Riak Object. There's more 
guidance in this thread:
http://lists.basho.com/pipermail/riak-users\_lists.basho.com/2014-February/014722.html

Sam
 
-- 
Sam Elliott
Engineer
sam.elli...@basho.com
--


On Tuesday, 4 March 2014 at 10:02AM, Sean Cribbs wrote:

> Hi Tim,
> 
> We punted on sub-type queries for 2.0. We intend to address them in 2.1, so 
> yes you must fetch the entire set or map in order to find out things like 
> membership and cardinality. 
> 
> 
> On Tue, Mar 4, 2014 at 8:01 AM, EmiNarcissus  (mailto:eminarcis...@me.com)> wrote:
> > Hi,
> > 
> > I’m now porting the riak 2.0 driver for twisted, it works beautifully now 
> > with what Yokozuna provides, also have a great back-port ability,really 
> > appreciate everything what this team have brought us XD. But because it 
> > still in lacks of document, I must read the implementation both from ruby 
> > and riakc-erl repo to get it started(erlang is okay for me, but I’m not 
> > quite familiar with ruby,sadly looks like only ruby’s client implementation 
> > is throughly right now). 
> > 
> > So here is my question on the datatype implementation on CRDT system.
> > 
> > From the code I can tell , fetch\_dt/update\_dt/modify\_dt is what have been 
> > exposed from the pbc interface. Now I’m more focused on Set object, so each 
> > time client will fetch the whole set(fetch\_dt) from the server and build 
> > the set on the local end, and maintain a add/remove operation list to send 
> > to the server when user does a update/add/remove action.
> > 
> > But I’m a little bit confused here, like what redis provides, a set have a 
> > ismember function is being done on the server instead of fetch/test manner. 
> > Does this available for Riak 2.0 Set datatype(just like what Riak1.4 
> > Counter object provided, it will do the operation on the server 
> > side,MISMEMBER a b, it will either return True/False). Currently I only can 
> > see add/update/delete operation on pbc proto file, and don’t have something 
> > alike, is that in a Todo list ? or will not implement at all(I will 
> > reconsider how the data should be structured if so). This feature will be 
> > really helpful when the dataset is big enough(like more than 10k values in 
> > it.)
> > 
> > 
> > Best,
> > Tim Lee
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> > riak-users mailing list
> > riak-users@lists.basho.com (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
> > http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> 
> 
> 
> 
> -- 
> Sean Cribbs 
> Software Engineer
> Basho Technologies, Inc.
> http://basho.com/
> 
> 
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com




\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

