---
title: "Crash Error"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-03-04T05:27:06-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15811"
author_name: "Jason Ryan"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-03-04T05:27:06-08:00

---


Hi all,

We're getting the following crash report messages in the log very regularly
in the last day - it renders our Riak Cluster pretty much unusable - until
we restart Riak on each node. All nodes report the same type of error.

2015-03-04 13:17:43.106 [error] <0.31063.9> CRASH REPORT Process
<0.31063.9> with 0 neighbours crashed with reason: no function clause
matching webmachine\_request:peer\_from\_peername({error,enotconn},
{webmachine\_request,{wm\_reqstate,#Port<0.89869>,[],undefined,undefined,undefined,{wm\_reqdata,'GET',...},...}})
line 150


Anyone seen this before, know what the cause might be?

Thanks,
Jason

[image: photo]
\*Jason Ryan\*
VP Engineering

Trustev
Real Time, Online Identity Verification

email: jason.r...@trustev.com
skype: jason\_j\_ryan
web: www.trustev.com

Trustev Ltd, 2100 Cork Airport Business Park, Cork, Ireland.

-- 


This message is for the named person's use only. If you received this 
message in error, please immediately delete it and all copies and notify 
the sender. You must not, directly or indirectly, use, disclose, 
distribute, print, or copy any part of this message if you are not the 
intended recipient. Any views expressed in this message are those of the 
individual sender and not Trustev Ltd. Trustev is registered in Ireland No. 
516425 and trades from 2100 Cork Airport Business Park, Cork, Ireland.
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

