---
title: "503 Error"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-09-18T06:54:48-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12299"
author_name: "Wolfinger, Fred"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-09-18T06:54:48-07:00

---


Good morning.

For the past 24 hours, I have been trying to delete some data from Riak and 
reingest. I am using the 2.0.1 python-riak-client (http interface) and keep 
getting a 503 error. I have tried restarting the nodes, everything seems to be 
happy. This is a 3-node virtual cluster that we are using for prototyping. And 
I am not at this time dealing with large amounts of data either. I tried using 
the GPB interface but got an error that it doesn't appear to support search, 
which we are using.

Any thoughts on how to troubleshoot would be greatly appreciated.

Fred Wolfinger
Senior Data Scientist, CyberPoint Labs
direct +1 410 779 6741
mobile +1 443 655 3322


CyberPoint International

621 East Pratt Street, Suite 300

Baltimore MD 21202-3140

phone +1 410 779 6700

www.cyberpointllc.com


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_


If you believe you received this e-mail in error, please notify the sender 
immediately, delete the e-mail from your computer and do not copy or disclose 
it to anyone else.


The information in this email constitutes the proprietary information of Cyber 
Point International, LLC (DBA CyberPoint), and should be accessed only by the 
individual to whom it is addressed. The information in this email and any 
attachments may not be used, copied or disclosed without the consent of 
CyberPoint. CyberPoint is not responsible for any damages caused by your 
unauthorized use of the materials in this email.
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

