---
title: "Re: status of signature version 4 requests"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-08-06T07:42:13-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16373"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16367"
author_name: "Henrik Lund Kramshøj"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-08-06T07:42:13-07:00
---




Kazuhiro Suzuki wrote:
> Hi Henrik,
Hi All

> 
> It seems http proxy option[1] is needed to specify your Riak CS node
> instead of the endpoint option. Could you try to use it?
> Although you might already know, there is a good docs[2] which
> explains how Riak CS can interact with S3 clients.
> 
> [1]: 
> http://docs.aws.amazon.com/aws-sdk-php/v3/guide/guide/configuration.html#proxy
> [2]: 
> http://docs.basho.com/riakcs/latest/cookbooks/configuration/Configuring-Riak-CS/#Proxy-vs-Direct-Configuration

Going back to developers it seems they use something called Flyssystem,
which has v2 and v3 adapters
http://flysystem.thephpleague.com/adapter/aws-s3-v2/

So I have solved my problem for now, by using the flysystem v2 adapter,
with something like:
use Aws\S3\S3Client;
use League\Flysystem\AwsS3v2\AwsS3Adapter;
use League\Flysystem\Filesystem;

$client = S3Client::factory([
 'key' => AWS\_KEY,
 'secret' => AWS\_SECRET\_KEY,
 'region' => 'local',
 'endpoint' => 'http://s3.amazonaws.com:8080',
]);

- and also catching the s3.amazonaws.com DNS with DNSmasq and sending
requests to the Riak CS.

I will of course look into the proxy parts too, and refine this with a
better named endpoint.

Thank you for input, Riak CS proved to be easier to get up than expected.

Best regards

Henrik

> 
> Thanks,
> Kaz
> 
> On Thu, Aug 6, 2015 at 3:43 PM, Kota Uenishi  wrote:
>> Henrik,
>> Thank you for trying Riak CS. Besides, current status of v4
>> authentication is not yet GA, not all features implemented, and only
>> partially tested with boto (Python AWS library). I'm not sure what's
>> going on in your cluster, but can you find any error or warning logs
>> simaltenously happning your 500?
>>
>> On Tue, Aug 4, 2015 at 7:14 PM, Henrik Lund Kramshøj  
>> wrote:
>>> Hi There
>>>
>>> I am researching self-hosted alternatives to S3, and found Riak CS.
>>> Setup was OK, and I currently can access the server fine with s3cmd
>>>
>>> Unfortunately I cannot make it work with AWS SDK PHP version 3, since it
>>> uses signature version 4.
>>>
>>> I have done lots of trial and error, using PHP
>>> define('AWS\_KEY', 'xxx');
>>> define('AWS\_SECRET\_KEY', 'xxx');
>>> $client = new S3Client([
>>> 'credentials' => [
>>> 'key' => AWS\_KEY,
>>> 'secret' => AWS\_SECRET\_KEY
>>> ],
>>> 'region' => 'local',
>>> 'version' => '2006-03-01',
>>> 'endpoint' => '172.xx.x.xx:8080',
>>> // 'signature\_version' => 'v4'
>>> ]);
>>>
>>> signature\_version can only be v4 or anonymous.
>>>
>>> What is the expectation with v4 requests?
>>>
>>> I did find the option, auth\_v4\_enabled:
>>> root@riaks2:/etc/riak-cs# cat advanced.config
>>> [
>>> {riak\_cs, [
>>> %% {auth\_v4\_enabled, true}
>>> ]}
>>> ].
>>>
>>> but it ends up in error 500
>>> ""Internal Server Error
=====================

""
>>>
>>> Do I need more configuration, or is it not ready.
>>>
>>>
>>>
>>> root@riaks2:/etc/riak-cs# lsb\_release -a
>>> No LSB modules are available.
>>> Distributor ID: Ubuntu
>>> Description: Ubuntu 14.04.2 LTS
>>> Release: 14.04
>>> Codename: trusty
>>> root@riaks2:/etc/riak-cs# dpkg -l | egrep "riak|stanchion"
>>> ii riak 2.0.5-1
>>> amd64 Riak is a distributed data store
>>> ii riak-cs 2.0.1-1
>>> amd64 Riak CS
>>> ii stanchion 2.0.0-1
>>> amd64 Request Serialization Application
>>>
>>> Best regards
>>>
>>> Henrik
>>> --
>>> Henrik Lund Kramshøj, Follower of the Great Way of Unix
>>> internet samurai cand.scient CISSP
>>> h...@krugercorp.dk +45 2678 1919
>>>
>>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>>> riak-users mailing list
>>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>
>>
>> --
>> Kota UENISHI / @kuenishi
>> Basho Japan KK
>>
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> 
> 
> 

-- 
Henrik Lund Kramshøj, Follower of the Great Way of Unix
internet samurai cand.scient CISSP
h...@krugercorp.dk +45 2678 1919

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

