---
title: "Re: Very high CPU usage by bean.smp"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-09-24T05:52:40-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12360"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12359"
author_name: "Guido Medina"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-09-24T05:52:40-07:00
---



Jared,

Is it possible to elaborate more on "meet me in the middle 
settings/scenarios?", let me explain, let's say the quorum is configured 
with low values, say, R=W=1 and N=3, doesn't that add more work to AAE 
background process? Could there be ways to sacrifice some client 
performance with let's say, in the middle kind of generic for most 
scenario settings to have the client wait a bit longer (R=W=2 or similar 
combinations) and AAE to work a bit less?


Just thoughts though, I leave to the experts the deep explanation of this.

HTH,

Guido.

On 24/09/13 13:41, Jared Morrow wrote:



 Interesting. Someone knows what this entropy thing is doing
 exactly? Can
 it be switched off by default maybe?


Here is a description of AAE when it was released in Riak 1.3 
http://basho.com/introducing-riak-1-3/ You can turn off AAE in your 
config files if you want it off. With Riak (and distributed systems 
in general) there are always tradeoffs for any feature. Riak more 
than others tends to pick 'safety' for the default case. AAE protects 
your data's integrity even when not being read for a long time. It is 
a very important feature, but we understand it does not fit everyone's 
needs, so we provide the option to turn it off.


Hope that helps,
Jared




\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

