---
title: "Re: Recommended way to delete keys"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-06-04T10:54:57-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16204"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16198"
author_name: "Bryce Verdier"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-06-04T10:54:57-07:00
---


DOH! I should have known that answer wouldn't have been that simple.
Best of luck.

Warm regards,
Bryce


On Thu, 4 Jun 2015 13:46:28 -0400
Peter Herndon  wrote:

> Thanks, Bryce, but auto-expire relies on bitcask being the back-end,
> and we’re on leveldb.
> 
> > On Jun 4, 2015, at 1:24 PM, Bryce Verdier 
> > wrote:
> > 
> > I realize I'm kind of late to this party, but what about
> > using the auto-expire feature and letting riak do the deletion of
> > data for you?
> > 
> > The link is for an older version, but I know the
> > functionality still exists in riak2.
> > http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/community/faqs/developing/#how-can-i-automatically-expire-a-key-from-riak
> > 
> > Warm regards,
> > Bryce
> > 
> > 
> > On Thu, 4 Jun 2015 09:28:04 +0200
> > Daniel Abrahamsson  wrote:
> > 
> >> Hi Peter,
> >> 
> >> What is "large-scale" in your case? How many keys do you need to
> >> delete, and how often?
> >> 
> >> //Daniel
> >> 
> >> On Wed, Jun 3, 2015 at 9:54 PM, Peter Herndon 
> >> wrote:
> >> 
> >>> Interesting thought. It might work for us, it might not, I’ll have
> >>> to check with our CTO to see whether the expense makes sense under
> >>> our circumstances.
> >>> 
> >>> Thanks!
> >>> 
> >>> —Peter
> >>>> On Jun 3, 2015, at 2:21 PM, Drew Kerrigan 
> >>>> wrote:
> >>>> 
> >>>> Another idea for a large-scale one-time removal of data, as well
> >>>> as an
> >>> opportunity for a fresh start, would be to:
> >>>> 
> >>>> 1. set up multi-data center replication between 2 clusters
> >>>> 2. implement a recv/2 hook on the sink which refuses data from
> >>>> the
> >>> buckets / keys you would like to ignore / delete
> >>>> 3. trigger a full sync replication
> >>>> 4. start using the sync as your new source of data sans the
> >>>> ignored data
> >>>> 
> >>>> Obviously this is costly, but it should have a fairly minimal
> >>>> impact to
> >>> existing production users other than the moment that you switch
> >>> traffic from the old cluster to the new one.
> >>>> 
> >>>> Caveats: Not all Riak features are supported with MDC (search
> >>>> indexes
> >>> and strong consistency in particular).
> >>>> 
> >>>> On Wed, Jun 3, 2015 at 2:11 PM Peter Herndon
> >>>> 
> >>> wrote:
> >>>> Sadly, this is a production cluster already using leveldb as the
> >>> backend. With that constraint in mind, and rebuilding the cluster
> >>> not really being an option to enable multi-backends or bitcask,
> >>> what would our best approach be?
> >>>> 
> >>>> Thanks!
> >>>> 
> >>>> —Peter
> >>>> 
> >>>>> On Jun 3, 2015, at 12:09 PM, Alexander Sicular
> >>>>> 
> >>> wrote:
> >>>>> 
> >>>>> We are actively investigating better options for deletion of
> >>>>> large
> >>> amounts of keys. As Sargun mentioned, deleting the data dir for an
> >>> entire backend via an operationalized rolling restart is probably
> >>> the best approach right now for killing large amounts of keys.
> >>>>> 
> >>>>> But if your key space can fit in memory the best way to kill
> >>>>> keys is
> >>> to use bitcask ttl if that's an option. 1. If you can even use
> >>> bitcask in your environment due to the memory overhead and 2. If
> >>> your use case allows for ttls which it may considering you may
> >>> already be using time bound buckets....
> >>>>> 
> >>>>> -Alexander
> >>>>> 
> >>>>> @siculars
> >>>>> http://siculars.posthaven.com
> >>>>> 
> >>>>> Sent from my iRotaryPhone
> >>>>> 
> >>>>> On Jun 3, 2015, at 09:54, Sargun Dhillon 
> >>>>> wrote:
> >>>>> 
> >>>>>> You could map your keys to a given bucket, and that bucket to
> >>>>>> a given
> >>> backend using multi\_backend. There is some cost to having lots of
> >>> backends (memory overhead, FDs, etc...). When you want to do a
> >>> mass drop, you could down the node, and delete that given
> >>> backend, and bring it up. Caveat: AAE, MDC, nor mutable data play
> >>> well with this scenario.
> >>>>>> 
> >>>>>> On Wed, Jun 3, 2015 at 10:43 AM, Peter Herndon
> >>>>>> 
> >>> wrote:
> >>>>>> Hi list,
> >>>>>> 
> >>>>>> We’re looking for the best way to handle large scale
> >>>>>> expiration of
> >>> no-longer-useful data stored in Riak. We asked a while back, and
> >>> the recommendation was to store the data in time-segmented buckets
> >>> (bucket per day or per month), query on the current buckets, and
> >>> use the streaming list keys API to handle slowly deleting the
> >>> buckets that have aged out.
> >>>>>> 
> >>>>>> Is that still the best approach for doing this kind of task?
> >>>>>> Or is
> >>> there a better approach?
> >>>>>> 
> >>>>>> Thanks!
> >>>>>> 
> >>>>>> —Peter Herndon
> >>>>>> Sr. Application Engineer
> >>>>>> @Bitly
> >>>>>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> >>>>>> riak-users mailing list
> >>>>>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> >>>>>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> >>>>>> 
> >>>>>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> >>>>>> riak-users mailing list
> >>>>>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> >>>>>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> >>>> 
> >>>> 
> >>>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> >>>> riak-users mailing list
> >>>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> >>>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> >>> 
> >>> 
> >>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> >>> riak-users mailing list
> >>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> >>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> >>> 
> > 
> 


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

