---
title: "Re: [ANN] Yokozuna 0.7.0"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-07-01T09:31:19-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11362"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg11361"
author_name: "Jeremiah Peschka"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-07-01T09:31:19-07:00
---


What level of PBC integration can we expect from Yokozuna? Is that
developed but not documented or is that a TBA feature?

---
Jeremiah Peschka - Founder, Brent Ozar Unlimited
MCITP: SQL Server 2008, MVP
Cloudera Certified Developer for Apache Hadoop


On Mon, Jul 1, 2013 at 8:46 AM, Ryan Zezeski  wrote:

> Riak Users,
>
> Today I'm excited to bring you the 0.7.0 release of Yokozuna. It includes
> some new features such as an upgrade to Solr 4.3.0, isolation of index
> failures, one-to-many index-to-buckets relationship, and map-reduce
> support. There is also a performance improvement in index throughput.
> Along with several bug fixes. See the release notes for more detail.
>
> https://github.com/basho/yokozuna/blob/master/docs/RELEASE\_NOTES.md#070
>
> Once again I have forgone the EC2 AMI. Only a source package is
> available. You can find instructions for installing on the INSTALL page.
>
> https://github.com/basho/yokozuna/blob/master/docs/INSTALL.md
>
> For those that have been using Yokozuna. The one-to-many change is a
> breaking change. Creating an index no longer implicitly indexes the bucket
> with the same name. Two steps must be performed. FIrst you create the
> index as before. Second you add a bucket property 'yz\_index' whose value
> is the name of the index you wish to index that bucket under. There is an
> example in the README.
>
> https://github.com/basho/yokozuna#creating-an-index
>
> -Z
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

