---
title: "Re: haproxy issues with protocol buffers on 2.x releases"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-06-04T21:00:06-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16211"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16197"
author_name: "Kota Uenishi"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-06-04T21:00:06-07:00
---


Toby,

As PB connection management haven't been changed between CS 1.5 and
2.0, I think it should work. What's the version the load balancing
working stable? It depends of the reason why connection has been cut,
but I would recommend you restart just the CS node and recreate the
connection pool.

On Thu, Jun 4, 2015 at 2:33 PM, Toby Corkindale  wrote:
> Hi,
> I've been happily using haproxy in front of Riak and Riak CS 1.x in
> production for quite a while.
>
> I've been trying to bring up a new cluster based on riak/cs 2.0.x recently,
> as you've probably noticed from the flurry of emails to this list :)
>
> I'm discovering that if I have haproxy sitting between riak-cs and riak,
> then I get a lot of errors about disconnections. Initially I thought this
> must be related to pb backlogs or pool sizes or file handle limits -- but
> I've played with all those things to no avail.
>
> I \*have\* noticed that if I get riak-cs to connect directly to a riak
> (bypassing haproxy) then everything is fine, including with the original
> default request pool and backlog sizes.
>
> I am essentially using the recommended haproxy.cfg, which has worked fine in
> production elsewhere.
>
> Any suggestions?
> Error message sample follows:
>
> 2015-06-04 15:26:16.447 [warning]
> <0.283.0>@riak\_cs\_riak\_client:get\_user\_with\_pbc:293 Fetching user re
> cord with strong option failed: disconnected
> 2015-06-04 15:26:16.447 [warning]
> <0.2095.0>@riak\_cs\_pbc:check\_connection\_status:97 Connection status
> of <0.287.0> at maybe\_create\_user: {false,[]}
>
>
>
> Cheers
> Toby
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>



-- 
Kota UENISHI / @kuenishi
Basho Japan KK

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

