---
title: "Re: 404 Error: Object Not Found"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-12-13T08:59:32-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13235"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13054"
author_name: "Hector Castro"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-12-13T08:59:32-08:00
---


Hopefully this one resolves it:

I just setup a single node on Ubuntu 12.04 using Vagrant and attempted
to walk through your steps. In the process, I noticed that you are
issuing the following `curl` command and receiving a 404:

$ curl -v -XPUT http://10.0.2.15:8098/sessions/GA123D971 -H
"content-type: application/json" -d '{"username": "Ari", "token":
"20131122-GA123D971-1210"}'

The path for storing a key named "GA123D971" in a bucket named
"sessions" should be:

$ curl -v -XPUT http://10.0.2.15:8098/buckets/sessions/keys/GA123D971
-H "content-type: application/json" -d '{"username": "Ari", "token":
"20131122-GA123D971-1210"}'

The response for this request should contain a HTTP 204 No Content.

--
Hector


On Wed, Dec 11, 2013 at 6:49 PM, Ari King  wrote:
>> Can you please try running the following command from within the dev
>> directory:
>>
>> $ ./dev1/bin/riak ping
>>
>> When I run it locally using your exact configs (downloaded from
>> pastebin), I see:
>>
>> $ ./dev1/bin/riak ping
>> Node 'dev1@127.0.0.1\r' not responding to pings.
>>
>> (Note the \r)
>>
>> If I start dev2 (using the config populated by Riak's `make devrel
>> DEVNODES=2` command), I get:
>>
>> $ ./dev2/bin/riak ping
>> Node 'dev2@127.0.0.1' not responding to pings.
>>
>> Can you please ensure that all carriage returns are removed from your
>> Riak configuration files?
>>
>
> Hector,
>
> Apologies for the delayed response. I've been traveling internationally over
> the last ten days and in my haste thought I had sent the reply, when I
> actually had only written the response.
>
> I do not have any carriage returns in my actual config file, I believe that
> was added when pasting to pastebin. When I run "./dev1/bin/riak ping" I get
> "pong". However, I'm running riak on ubuntu 12.10 on vagrant. And I have to
> start riak with "sudo" otherwise while it does start up, it does not bind to
> the configured ports.
>
> Thanks.
>
> -Ari

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

