---
title: "Re: Node join not committed"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-10-09T06:06:53-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16648"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16647"
author_name: "Jon Meredith"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-10-09T06:06:53-07:00
---


Hi Daniel,

It's perfectly safe to issue the cluster plan/commit steps. Joining the
node gives it information about where data is located in the rest of the
cluster and it will happily coordinate gets, but the new node will always
forward put requests and will not store any data until you go through the
plan/commit cycle.

If you cancel the node will remove itself from the cluster membership
metadata and exit.

Jon



On Fri, Oct 9, 2015 at 6:55 AM Daniel Iwan  wrote:

> Hi
>
> Our attach script failed and it only issued \*cluster join\*
> but not \*cluster plan\* and \*cluster commit\*.
> so the node was visible as joining in member\_status
>
> Since then both part (original cluster and new node) were taking writes but
> in our configuration each node takes writes from it local process (no load
> balancing etc)
>
> I've checked content of both parts and it looks like riak db is in sync
> i.e.
> new node can see data that were stored on original cluster. Am I right
> assuming join is enough and cluster is seen as a whole?
>
> What are the consequences on not running plan & commit?
> What would cancel do in this scenario?
>
> Also is it safe to issue those to and finish process?
>
> Regards
> Daniel
>
>
>
> --
> View this message in context:
> http://riak-users.197444.n3.nabble.com/Node-join-not-committed-tp4033571.html
> Sent from the Riak Users mailing list archive at Nabble.com.
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

