---
title: "Re: ClusterOffline Unable to access functioning Riak node"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2017-04-17T06:49:15-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg18152"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg18147"
author_name: "Luke Bakken"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2017-04-17T06:49:15-07:00
---


Thanks for letting us know the outcome.
--
Luke Bakken
Engineer
lbak...@basho.com


On Fri, Apr 14, 2017 at 12:49 PM, Charles Solar  wrote:
> Thanks for the tip Luke - I updated those timeouts to 30s each and not
> seeing anymore failures. I guess ideally updates should happen in under 4
> seconds though so I'll have to find out why certain saves are taking so
> long!
>
> Charles
>
> On Fri, Apr 14, 2017 at 12:33 PM, Luke Bakken  wrote:
>>
>> Hi Charles -
>>
>> Extend the read and write timeouts using this setting:
>>
>>
>> https://github.com/basho/riak-dotnet-client/blob/develop/src/RiakClientTests.Live/App.config#L24
>>
>> The above example extends it to 60 seconds.
>>
>> The default is 4 seconds which may be too short if you are running
>> long queries. If 4 seconds is exceeded, the socket read times out and
>> the client assumes that there is an issue with the node, marking it
>> down. Eventually, all nodes can be marked down.
>> --
>> Luke Bakken
>> Engineer
>> lbak...@basho.com
>>
>>
>> On Wed, Apr 12, 2017 at 11:03 AM, Charles Solar 
>> wrote:
>> > Hi list - I'm currently running both Riak and RiakTS in a lab
>> > environment
>> > for testing and my clients writing data get
>> >
>> > "ClusterOffline Unable to access functioning Riak node"
>> >
>> > errors fairly often. I am wondering if this is an indication that I
>> > need to
>> > add more nodes to increase capacity? Or tune some other settings?
>> >
>> > I've looked through Riak logs and there is no indication of a problem,
>> > are
>> > there other diagnostics I can do?
>> >
>> >
>> > Im finding RiakTS commits fail with this commit far more often.
>> >
>> > I'm using the C# client, nodePollTime 5000, retryWaitTime 100,
>> > retryCount 3
>> >
>> > with 7 riak nodes and 3 riakts nodes.
>> >
>> > \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> > riak-users mailing list
>> > riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> > http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>> >
>
>

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

