---
title: "Re: is it possible to use FQDN instead of IP in riak.conf for "listener.http.$name” field?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-08-04T12:59:17-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16353"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16351"
author_name: "ROMAN SHESTAKOV"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-08-04T12:59:17-07:00
---


thanks a lot Richard and Geoff
Regards, Roman

> On 4 Aug 2015, at 20:51, Geoff Clark  wrote:
> 
> Can confirm, we have this set in our production cluster.
> 
> On Mon, Aug 3, 2015 at 6:31 AM, Richard Jonas 
>  > wrote:
> Hi Roman,
> 
> my guess is that you can use 0.0.0.0 as IP address which means "listen on 
> every network device", so if the IP address changes you don't need to change 
> anything in the config. Please double check this.
> 
> Richard
> 
> On Wed, Jul 22, 2015 at 7:03 PM, Nick Marino  > wrote:
> Hi Roman,
> 
> I took a quick look at the riak\_api code, and unfortunately it doesn't look 
> like there's an easy way to do this right now. The code assumes you'll enter 
> an IP address, and there's no place where it would attempt to resolve a 
> hostname if you passed that in instead.
> 
> That said, this does seem like it would be a nice feature to have, and 
> probably shouldn't be terribly difficult to implement. If you have a GitHub 
> account you could try logging a feature request under the issues section for 
> the riak\_api project (https://github.com/basho/riak\_api 
> ). I can't make any guarantees as to 
> whether/when anyone will have time to look into it, but hopefully it's 
> something that could be done in the short to medium term. If you don't have a 
> GitHub account and would like me to enter this for you, send me an email and 
> I can get a request filed. 
> 
> In the mean time, your best bet is probably to write a script to 
> automatically regenerate your config file with the correct IP addresses as 
> needed. Not the prettiest solution, but unfortunately that's the best 
> suggestion I have for the time being.
> 
> Thanks,
> Nick
> 
> On Mon, Jul 20, 2015 at 4:48 PM, ROMAN SHESTAKOV  > wrote:
> 
> Hello,
> 
> is there any way to specify in riak.conf in field "listener.http.$name” FQDN 
> instead of IP address?
> 
> >>>listener.http.$name This is the IP address and TCP port to which the Riak 
> >>>HTTP interface will bind. {"127.0.0.1",8098}<<<
> 
> why is it required to use IP address instead of a host name? In my setting 
> RIAK\_KV is deployed on dynamic VMs and IP could be changed if the VM is 
> launched on a different hypervisor.
> 
> Regards, Roman
> 
> 
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com 
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com 
> 
> 
> 
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com 
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> -- 
> Richard Jonas
> Erlang Solutions Hungary Kft
> 
> Address:
> Riverpark Office K.32
> Közraktár street 32. 3/1.
> 1093 Budapest
> Hungary
> Phone/fax:
> +36-1-7000-654 
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com 
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com 
> 
> 
> 
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

