---
title: "Re: Highlighting in full-text search"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-05-01T13:21:43-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14166"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14163"
author_name: "Hector Castro"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-05-01T13:21:43-07:00
---


Hi Chaim,

In order to take advantage of the Riak Search/Solr highlighting
capabilities from Python (right now), you're best bet may be to use a
Python Solr client for queries. The Riak client for Python is still not
100% compatible with Riak 2.0 (although the master branch has some
support). [0]

Using the examples provided in the basic usage for search documentation
[1], I was able to retrieve highlighting snippets via HTTP using the
following set of query string parameters:

$ curl -s
"$RIAK\_HOST/search/famous?wt=json&hl=true&hl.fl=name\_s&q=name\_s:Lion\*" |
python -mjson.tool | grep -A6 "highlighting"
 "highlighting": {
 "default\_yzbucket\_liono\_54": {
 "name\_s": [
 "*Lion-o*"
 ]
 }
 },

(Note the  *tags surrounding the term that matches the query.)

--
Hector

[0] https://github.com/basho/riak-python-client
[1] http://docs.basho.com/riak/2.0.0beta1/dev/using/search/

On Thu, May 1, 2014 at 5:02 AM, Chaim Solomon 
wrote:
> Hi,
>
> I am not able to figure out how to get the highlighting to work.
> I am using 2.0.0beta1 which states that it supports highlighting - but it
> seems not really documented besides the reference to the Solr
documentation.
> I am using the Python client.
>
> The documentation states that I need to set hl=true. But where?
> It doesn't seem to be one of the parameters that the method search accepts
> (looked in the source code).
>
> How do I get that parameter into the search?
>
> Can anyone provide an example?
>
> Chaim Solomon
>
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com*