---
title: "Re: Searching"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-03-07T08:15:34-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15857"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15855"
author_name: "Zeeshan Lakhani"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-03-07T08:15:34-08:00
---


Saw your more recent email as well.

We’re currently working on attempting patch up the issues with 
\_yz\_events:handle\_info and what that crash was causing. Are you seeing "Core 
with name ‘' already exists” in your solr logs? If so, that’s means 
it’s a similar issue, and, again, we’re working on testing patches internally.


Thanks.

Zeeshan Lakhani
programmer | 
software engineer at @basho | 
org. member/founder of @papers\_we\_love | paperswelove.org
twitter => @zeeshanlakhani

> On Mar 7, 2015, at 11:02 AM, Jason Ryan  wrote:
> 
> We have seen crash \_yz\_events yes, none today for example, but there was 
> quite a bit yesterday.
> 
> It's a 5 node cluster - 14GB of RAM in each, solr jvm is set at 8GB on each.
> 
> I've not seen any corrupted data, but we could be looking in the wrong place? 
> Our buckets are set to allow\_mult false and last\_write\_wins true, so we don't 
> expect any siblings.
> 
> We had a health done by yourselves also, the main change, which we have not 
> yet applied is switching AAE from active to passive and setting erlang buffer 
> to 128MB
> 
> 
> 
> Jason Ryan
> VP Engineering
> 
> Trustev
> Real Time, Online Identity Verification
> 
> email: jason.r...@trustev.com  
> skype: jason\_j\_ryan
> web: www.trustev.com 
> 
> Trustev Ltd, 2100 Cork Airport Business Park, Cork, Ireland. 
> 
> On 7 March 2015 at 15:54, Zeeshan Lakhani  > wrote:
> Hello Jason,
> 
> I initially was thinking that you’re issues were similar to what we’ve found 
> here, https://github.com/basho/yokozuna/issues/442#issuecomment-77233636 
> , but 
> seeing {error, retry\_later} and the 500s seem to place the problems more on 
> the Solr end. Just to make sure, are you seeing `yz\_events` crashes in your 
> logs?
> 
> Can you tell me how much RAM each node has and have you adjusted/increased 
> the search.sol.jmv\_options max heap size at all (more info on issues/factors 
> w/ Solr performance here -> 
> http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/ops/advanced/configs/search/#Solr-for-Operators
> 
> )?
> 
> 
> What kind of issues are you getting in your solr logs? Anything related to 
> bad/corrupted data (which will index into \_yz\_err fields when dealing with 
> failed extractions) or possible sibling explosion (duplicates of the same 
> object with different \_yz\_vtag fields)? 
> 
> Thanks.
> 
> 
> Zeeshan Lakhani
> programmer | 
> software engineer at @basho | 
> org. member/founder of @papers\_we\_love | paperswelove.org 
> 
> twitter => @zeeshanlakhani
> 
>> On Mar 7, 2015, at 5:43 AM, Jason Ryan > > wrote:
>> 
>> Hi all,
>> 
>> We're having real trouble with Riak Search.
>> We are seeing an awful lot of errors, which leads to alot of logging for 
>> solr and the disk IO reaching 95% + which is causing lots of issues.
>> 
>> - We consistently see errors around Riak trying to create indexes which 
>> already exist - only a restart of each Riak node stops this for a period of 
>> time - indexes are only ever created manually, not by software.
>> 
>> - We see lots of errors around failing to index objects - details of what 
>> appears in the log are:
>> 
>> 2015-03-07 10:30:26.871 [error] <0.2538.0>@yz\_kv:index:215 failed to index 
>> object 
>> {{<<"Production">>,<<"Grains.Domain.Case">>},<<"455203890918dfc6fd3c7da49dd6adb00300000043a46a51">>}
>> with error {"Failed to index docs",{error,retry\_later}} because 
>> [{yz\_solr,index,3,[{file,"src/yz\_solr.erl"},{line,192}]},{yz\_kv,index,7,[{file,"src/yz\_kv.erl"},{line,267}]},{yz\_kv,index,3,[{file,"src/yz\_kv.erl"},{line,202}]},{riak\_kv\_vnode,actual\_put,6,[{file,"src/riak\_kv\_vnode.erl"},{line,1418}]},{riak\_kv\_vnode,perform\_put,3,[{file,"src/riak\_kv\_vnode.erl"},{line,1406}]},{riak\_kv\_vnode,do\_put,7,[{file,"src/riak\_kv\_vnode.erl"},{line,1201}]},{riak\_kv\_vnode,handle\_command,3,[{file,"src/riak\_kv\_vnode.erl"},{line,486}]},{riak\_core\_vnode,vnode\_command,3,[{file,"src/riak\_core\_vnode.erl"},{line,345}]}]
>> 
>> 
>> - We are also starting to see 500's being returned for search queries - the 
>> response looks like this:
>> 
>> 500 Internal Server 
>> ErrorInternal Server Error
=====================

The server 
>> encountered an error while processing this request:  

```
{error,
>> 
>>     {throw,
>> 
>>         {"Failed to search",
>> 
>>          "http://localhost:8093/internal_solr/sessions/select 
>> ",
>> 
>> {error,retry\_later}},
>> 
>> [{yz\_solr,search,3,[{file,"src/yz\_solr.erl"},{line,278}]},
>> 
>> {yz\_wm\_search,search,2,[{file,"src/yz\_wm\_search.erl"},{line,129}]},
>> 
>> {webmachine\_resource,resource\_call,3,
>> 
>> [{file,"src/webmachine\_resource.erl"},{line,186}]},
>> 
>> {webmachine\_resource,do,3,
>> 
>> [{file,"src/webmachine\_resource.erl"},{line,142}]},
>> 
>> {webmachine\_decision\_core,resource\_call,1,
>> 
>> [{file,"src/webmachine\_decision\_core.erl"},{line,48}]},
>> 
>> {webmachine\_decision\_core,decision,1,
>> 
>> [{file,"src/webmachine\_decision\_core.erl"},{line,558}]},
>> 
>> {webmachine\_decision\_core,handle\_request,2,
>> 
>> [{file,"src/webmachine\_decision\_core.erl"},{line,33}]},
>> 
>> {webmachine\_mochiweb,loop,2,
>> 
>> \* Connection #0 to host 10.0.5.6 left intact
>> 
>> 
>> [{file,"src/webmachine\_mochiweb.erl"},{line,74}]}]}}
```


---

mochiweb+webmachine
>> web server


>> 
>> 
>> 
>> Anyone that could point us in the right direction of where to look and 
>> debug, as this is becoming a huge issue for us.
>> 
>> 
>> 
>> Thanks,
>> 
>> Jason
>> 
>> 
>> 
>> 
>> 
>> 
>> This message is for the named person's use only. If you received this 
>> message in error, please immediately delete it and all copies and notify the 
>> sender. You must not, directly or indirectly, use, disclose, distribute, 
>> print, or copy any part of this message if you are not the intended 
>> recipient. Any views expressed in this message are those of the individual 
>> sender and not Trustev Ltd. Trustev is registered in Ireland No. 516425 and 
>> trades from 2100 Cork Airport Business Park, Cork, Ireland.
>> 
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com 
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com 
>> 
> 
> 
> 
> This message is for the named person's use only. If you received this message 
> in error, please immediately delete it and all copies and notify the sender. 
> You must not, directly or indirectly, use, disclose, distribute, print, or 
> copy any part of this message if you are not the intended recipient. Any 
> views expressed in this message are those of the individual sender and not 
> Trustev Ltd. Trustev is registered in Ireland No. 516425 and trades from 2100 
> Cork Airport Business Park, Cork, Ireland.
> 

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

