---
title: "Re: Riak Search and custom Solr components"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2016-05-31T10:10:16-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg17436"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg17434"
author_name: "Luke Bakken"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2016-05-31T10:10:16-07:00
---


Hi Steve and Guillaume -

If you subscribe to this GitHub issue you can provide input and follow
progress on improving access to solrconfig.xml:
https://github.com/basho/yokozuna/issues/537

You might be able to restart a Solr core via the HTTP /solr endpoint -
that may be easier than restarting all of Riak.

--
Luke Bakken
Engineer
lbak...@basho.com

On Tue, May 31, 2016 at 8:54 AM, Steve Garon  wrote:
> Hey Guillaume,
>
> We had to alter the solrconfig.xml in our deployment because the default
> solrconfig.xml does not give good search throughput with a large amount of
> documents updating often. I've opened a ticket at basho to get the
> solrconfig.xml save into the buckets settings that way they would be the
> same across the cluster. I'm not sure when and if they'll have it in. I
> guess the more ppl that ask for this, the sooner we'll get it.
>
> In the meantime, what we did is that during our riak node installation
> procedure, we create the index using curl then we override the
> solrconfig.xml and then restart riak which in turn restarts solr. From then,
> the solrconfig.xml should remain intact. There is one more thing though.
> Sometimes, for unknown reasons, riak decides to recreate the solrconfig.xml.
> So you might wanna have a script that runs on the node to validate the
> solrconfig.xml has not changed and to fix it automatically if it does.
>
> I know this is not ideal, solrconfig.xml really needs to be saved in bucket
> settings like the schema.xml. Lets just hope the Basho works on fixing this
> ASAP because for big deployments this is kind of crutial.
>
>
>
> Steve
>
> On 30 May 2016 at 13:18, Guillaume Boddaert
>  wrote:
>>
>> Please allow me to bump this previous message that was sent late last
>> friday and that didn't attract much attention due to a well deserved
>> week-end.
>>
>>
>> On 27/05/2016 19:14, Guillaume Boddaert wrote:
>>
>> Hi there,
>>
>> I'm currently testing custom Component in my Riak Search system. As I need
>> a suggestion mechanism from the Solr index, I implemented the Suggester
>> component (https://wiki.apache.org/solr/Suggester).
>> It seems to work correctly, yet I have some question regarding the usage
>> of custom Solr configuration inside of Riak. The only caveat is that Riak
>> commits too often and that the suggestion index must be build manually and
>> not on commit. That's fine for me, i'll cron that once per day.
>>
>> First of all, how do stop/start/reload the solr instance without
>> disturbing the Riak core ? For the time being I'm stuck with service
>> start/stop. How can I reload my solr cores configuration without stopping
>> riak ?
>>
>> Secondly, is that a good pattern to start tweaking defaults from my solr
>> cores (solrconfig.xml) ? Should I stop that right now and consider to use a
>> distinct Solr instance if I require those modifications ? Or should I
>> consider safe to alter cache/performance settings as well for Solr to match
>> my needs ? Can I play with other solr files such as stopwords and stuff like
>> that ?
>>
>> Finally, is there a proper way to alter default solrconfig.xml ? It is
>> auto-generated at index creation by Riak, yet that's a BIG and complex file
>> that may evolve between Riak releases. I'm creating indexes programatically
>> sending my index through Riak interface ( RiakClient.create\_search\_index in
>> Riak Python lib), but if I start to alter configuration I guess I need more
>> than that.
>> How do you guys would handle this ?
>>
>> Thanks,
>>
>> Guillaume
>>
>>
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>
>>
>>
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>
>
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

