---
title: "Re: [ANN] Riak 1.3 Released"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-02-21T08:35:30-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10183"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg10182"
author_name: "Jared Morrow"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-02-21T08:35:30-08:00
---


Simon,

Sorry for the confusion, I added a task to look into checking the file
descriptor count in the erlang world rather than the shell script here:
https://github.com/basho/riak/issues/278

Thanks,
Jared

On Thu, Feb 21, 2013 at 9:20 AM, Simon Effenberg
wrote:

> Thx. I see that the problem is only in the script. If you're using
> "riak attach" it cries about the low ulimit but that's not true for the
> riak process itself. So a little bit confusing but no real error.
>
> Cheers,
> Simon
>
> On Thu, 21 Feb 2013 09:09:40 -0700
> Jared Morrow  wrote:
>
> > That warning comes from the shell script wrapper that runs starts / stops
> > Riak, so if the shell is reporting a ulimit lower than 4096 you'll get
> that
> > warning. A good way to test for sure what ulimit Riak is seeing is to do
> > the following:
> >
> > \* do a riak console to start in interactive mode
> > \* when startup finishes, type os:cmd('ulimit -n').
> >
> > You should see something like:
> >
> > (dev1@127.0.0.1)1> os:cmd('ulimit -n').
> > "16384\n"
> > (dev1@127.0.0.1)2>
> >
> > If it indeed prints out the correct ulimit, you can easily modify the
> > riakscript to not warn you.
> >
> > -Jared
> >
> > On Thu, Feb 21, 2013 at 9:00 AM, Simon Effenberg
> > wrote:
> >
> > > Cool!
> > >
> > > But now I see this WARNING:
> > >
> > > WARNING: ulimit -n is 1024; 4096 is the recommended minimum
> > >
> > > but I created a /etc/default/riak file setting ulimit -n to 30000 and
> > > also a
> > >
> > > cat /proc//limits shows the 30000
> > >
> > > did I do something wrong?
> > >
> > > Cheers,
> > > Simon
> > >
> > > On Thu, 21 Feb 2013 09:24:52 -0500
> > > Tom Santero  wrote:
> > >
> > > > Here Ye! Here Ye!
> > > >
> > > > The Basho Engineering team is thrilled to announced that Riak 1.3 is
> > > > official and ready for your production systems. Without further
> adieu:
> > > >
> > > > - Complete release notes:
> > > > https://github.com/basho/riak/blob/1.3/RELEASE-NOTES.md
> > > > - 1.3 downloads and documentation:
> > > > http://docs.basho.com/riak/1.3.0/downloads/
> > > >
> > > > If you've been following the commits or have read the release notes
> for
> > > the
> > > > first four RCs, you know this release is well worth the wait. Big
> ticket
> > > > features and fixes include Active Anti Entropy (AAE), MapReduce
> stability
> > > > and speed improvements, a refacing for Riak Control, LevelDB saw
> another
> > > > round of significant improvements, and much more. All told, we
> > > > fixed/resolved/merged more than 170 issues and PRs.
> > > >
> > > > In addition to the release notes, we've got a blog post up on the
> Basho
> > > > Blog [1] with more details about 1.3. We're also doing a Riak 1.3
> Webcast
> > > > on March 7th [2] for anyone who is interested in getting a more
> in-depth
> > > > look at the release.
> > > >
> > > > 1.3 took a a little longer to get out the door than was planned, but
> it's
> > > > the most-advanced, battle-tested Riak we've ever released and we're
> proud
> > > > to ship it to you. Thanks for being a supportive and active
> community.
> > > Your
> > > > production usage, suggestions, comments, criticisms, code
> contributions,
> > > > and bug fixes made this possible.
> > > >
> > > > Lastly, if you want to hear all about the future of Riak and hack
> > > alongside
> > > > fellow Riak Community members for a few days, come to RICON | EAST
> this
> > > May
> > > > in NYC [3].
> > > >
> > > > Let us know if you have any questions about the release and thanks
> for
> > > > being a part of Riak.
> > > >
> > > > Now, onto 1.4...
> > > >
> > > > The Basho Team
> > > > twitter.com/basho
> > > >
> > > > [1] http://basho.com/introducing-riak-1-3/
> > > >
> > > > [2] http://info.basho.com/IntroToRiakMarch7.html
> > > >
> > > > [3] http://ricon.io/east.html
> > >
> > >
> > > --
> > > Simon Effenberg | Site Ops Engineer | mobile.international GmbH
> > > Fon: + 49-(0)30-8109 - 7173
> > > Fax: + 49-(0)30-8109 - 7131
> > >
> > > Mail: seffenb...@team.mobile.de
> > > Web: www.mobile.de
> > >
> > > Marktplatz 1 | 14532 Europarc Dreilinden | Germany
> > >
> > >
> > > Geschäftsführer: Malte Krüger
> > > HRB Nr.: 18517 P, Amtsgericht Potsdam
> > > Sitz der Gesellschaft: Kleinmachnow
> > >
> > > \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> > > riak-users mailing list
> > > riak-users@lists.basho.com
> > > http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> > >
>
>
> --
> Simon Effenberg | Site Ops Engineer | mobile.international GmbH
> Fon: + 49-(0)30-8109 - 7173
> Fax: + 49-(0)30-8109 - 7131
>
> Mail: seffenb...@team.mobile.de
> Web: www.mobile.de
>
> Marktplatz 1 | 14532 Europarc Dreilinden | Germany
>
>
> Geschäftsführer: Malte Krüger
> HRB Nr.: 18517 P, Amtsgericht Potsdam
> Sitz der Gesellschaft: Kleinmachnow
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

