---
title: "Node not responding to pings."
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-08-26T00:53:20-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12134"
author_name: "bugra"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-08-26T00:53:20-07:00

---


Hi,

I am trying out Riak and experience some failure messages. When starting
Riak it always tells me, that the node 'r...@my.ipa.ddr.ess' is not
responding. The IP address of my host is the same as the node name
configured in the vm.args file. Also the http and pb options are configured
with the same IP address of the host.

Reading some other forum posts, the usual hint is to delete the
/var/lib/riak/ring fodler and restart Riak. This unfortunately doesn't help
me. After taking a look in the 'riak-admin console' option I saw following
console log.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Node 'riak@192.168.75.227' not responding to pings.
config is OK
Exec: /usr/lib/riak/erts-5.9.1/bin/erlexec -boot
/usr/lib/riak/releases/1.4.1/riak -config /etc/riak/app.config 
 
-pa /usr/lib/riak/lib/basho-patches -args\_file /etc/riak/vm.args
-- console
Root: /usr/lib/riak
Erlang R15B01 (erts-5.9.1) [source] [64-bit] [smp:2:2] [async-threads:64]
[kernel-poll:true]

/usr/lib/riak/lib/os\_mon-2.2.9/priv/bin/memsup: Erlang has closed. 
 Erlang
has closed
 
 
{"Kernel pid
terminated",application\_controller,"{application\_start\_failure,riak\_core,{shutdown,{riak\_core\_app,start,[normal,[]]}}}"}

Crash dump was written to: /var/log/riak/erl\_crash.dump
Kernel pid terminated (application\_controller)
({application\_start\_failure,riak\_core,{shutdown,{riak\_core\_app,start,[normal,[]]}}})
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

I can't proceed with the error search. I am trying to figure out what is
going wrong. So, any help is appreciated. Maybe you have some good hints or
tips.



--
View this message in context: 
http://riak-users.197444.n3.nabble.com/Node-not-responding-to-pings-tp4028955.html
Sent from the Riak Users mailing list archive at Nabble.com.

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

