---
title: "ring resizing feature?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-09-18T00:48:53-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12295"
author_name: "pseudo-nyme"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-09-18T00:48:53-07:00

---



Dear all,
After a quick glimpse at Riak, I must say I like it: DHT with masterless design 
and gossiping protocol, that is appealing. More than maintainability or 
configurability, I am interested in scalability. I have looked at the node 
adding process for fine scaling, but for scaling big (over the long term) the 
necessity of resizing the ring (in order to double the number of partitions) 
seems unavoidable to me.
On Github, the v1.4 changelog seems to indicate that the "ring resizing 
feature" is now merged in the release (notably from riak-core#301); however, 
the official documentation for v1.4 (on docs.basho.com) still states that 
"ring\_creation\_size" is only configured a install time. I understand that ring 
resizing is not by itself a scaling mechanism, but
if you keep scaling out, sooner or later you will reach the limit. So I would 
like a bit of clarification on it:
- is this feature officially released as part of 1.4?
- if yes, is it a stable feature, is it ready for production? if not, is
it still under ongoing development?
- if it was released as unstable, what is your experience with it?
- in your opinion, can the problem be simplified if we only consider scaling 
out by doubling the ring size?
Also, independently of ring resizing, what do you consider the current limits 
of ring\_creation\_size? I have seen mentioned that 2048 and higher could 
importantly increase the volume of gossiping, what is your experience with it?
I hope you will be kind enough to provide me with some enlightenments. Kind 
regards.
PN



Une messagerie gratuite, garantie à vie et des services en plus, ça vous tente ?
Je crée ma boîte mail www.laposte.net

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

