---
title: "Re: trouble enabling strong consistency in riak_2.0.0beta1-1"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-05-12T02:22:36-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14210"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14208"
author_name: "Matt Williams"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-05-12T02:22:36-07:00
---


Andrew,

Thanks for the help.

I've run the command you suggested on the node, I think the ensemble is
enabled (the call 'riak\_ensemble\_manager:enabled().' is at least reporting
'true').

However, I'm still seeing the 'request timed out' behaviour for buckets
with the consistent property.

Thanks,

Matt



On 9 May 2014 20:36, Andrew Stone  wrote:

> Oops. Didn't reply to the list. Sorry for the dupe Matt.
>
> Hi Matt,
>
> My guess is that this has to do with a fairly recent change to the cluster
> join mechanism.
>
> Try attaching to the erlang shell with "riak attach" and running the
> following command:
>
> riak\_ensemble\_manager:enable().
>
> In the future a riak\_admin command (and documentation) will be provided,
> but for now it needs to be done from the shell. Hope this helps.
>
> -Andrew
>
>
> On Fri, May 9, 2014 at 7:07 AM, Matt Williams  > wrote:
>
>> Hi, I've been trying out the new strong consistency in v2.0, I have this
>> working nicely in 2.0.0pre20, but I can't seem to enable this in
>> 2.0.0beta1-1.
>>
>> Any call to a strongly consistent bucket just returns immediately with
>> 'request timed out', previously 'not found'. Bucket types without strongly
>> consistent properties behave fine.
>>
>> I figure I must have done something stupid, but I can't figure out what,
>> can anyone point me in the right direction?
>>
>> I am working with a fresh build of ubuntu:-
>>
>> Distributor ID: Ubuntu
>> Description: Ubuntu 12.04.4 LTS
>> Release: 12.04
>> Codename: precise
>>
>> 'riak config effective' suggests strong consistency is turned on
>> strong\_consistency = on
>>
>> I'm working with just one node at the moment.
>>
>> Thanks,
>>
>> Matt
>>
>>
>>
>>
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>
>>
>


-- 
Matt Williams
Geneity Limited
80 Hammersmith Road
Hammersmith
London
W14 8UD

matt.willi...@geneity.co.uk
+44 208 742 8393

England #05676580
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

