---
title: "Lets come together - how riak(_core) should be developed in the	future?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2017-08-17T07:48:39-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg18412"
author_name: "Heinz N. Gies"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2017-08-17T07:48:39-07:00

---


Heya everyone,
I figured I’ll pick up the initiative here and see if we all can come together 
before fragmentation hits. Annette mentioned this today and I think she’s right.

There are many people that want to see risk(\_core) continue to evolve and 
improve, out of the top of my head there are ES - who picked up support for 
riak, NHS/UK - which is using it and seem to keep doing so, there is Gordon, 
Annette, Chris, Tristan, Mariano and me who all have an interest to keep things 
going. I’m pretty sure I forgot a good few people (sorry! It doesn’t mean I 
love you any less, I just have a brain like a sieve).

Amongst all of us I’m sure we’ve quite some forks. Tristan, Chris, Mariano and 
me started https://github.com/Kyorai  to consolidate 
the git repos that correspond to the current hex packages as an example, NHS 
runs a fork of core at https://github.com/ramensen/riak\_core 
 and I guess ES will have one too by 
now. (Again apologies if I forgot someone).

I am quite sure that all of us have the same goal and probably are interested 
in the same things (keeping riak(\_core) strong). So what I’d like to suggest is 
we find a time to sit together and chat about how we pool resources instead of 
trying to cross merge in N different places. Perhaps late next week EU 
afternoon US morning? Please raise a hand if interested, discuss and share 
times that would work for you :)

Cheers,
Heinz


signature.asc
Description: Message signed with OpenPGP
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

