---
title: "Re: Deleting data from LevelDB backend"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-09-26T04:07:36-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12410"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12409"
author_name: "Simon Effenberg"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-09-26T04:07:36-07:00
---


Are we talking about
http://docs.basho.com/riak/1.3.1/cookbooks/Repairing-KV-Indexes/ ?

and if yes.. is this also doing a repair if data is missing? So after
executing the "repair" on one node.. will it have afterwards:

\* all keys it should have (like if AAE is fixing stuff through Read
 Repair)
\* all 2i indices it should have (like the documentation suggest)

So does it mean a "compaction" is triggered by doing:

\* remove big sst files
\* trigger this REPAIR type "Repairing-KV-Indexes"?

will this automatically fix the MANIFESTS file?

Cheers
Simon


On Thu, 26 Sep 2013 12:53:40 +0200
Simon Effenberg  wrote:

> Thanks Matthew,
> 
> but one thing I didn't get. If I delete a sst file.. should I delete
> (by hand) the MANIFEST file to trigger a repair or is it done
> automatically within Riak if it detects that a sst file which is
> referenced in the MANIFEST is missing?
> 
> Cheers
> Simon
> 
> On Wed, 25 Sep 2013 09:58:51 -0400
> Matthew Von-Maszewski  wrote:
> 
> > Simon,
> > 
> > I want to point out again that I do not like my answer … but currently lack 
> > a better one. The manual delete of .sst files should be treated as a last 
> > resort. Only do it if you really, really cannot wait for normal 
> > compactions to purge the old data.
> > 
> > To your question:
> > 
> > leveldb keeps a list of .sst table files in its MANIFEST file. If the .sst 
> > table files are deleted manually, the MANIFEST is no longer accurate. An 
> > inaccurate MANIFEST file leads to leveldb internal errors and sometimes 
> > infinite loops.
> > 
> > The repair process erases the current MANIFEST file and builds a new one 
> > based upon the files actually found on disk.
> > 
> > WARNING: repair takes a really, really long time in Riak 1.2.0 … it gets 
> > better in 1.2.1 … and improves to something quite reasonable by 1.3 and 1.4.
> > 
> > A discussion about repair can be found here:
> > 
> > https://github.com/basho/leveldb/wiki/repair-notes
> > 
> > Matthew
> > 
> > 
> > On Sep 25, 2013, at 9:38 AM, Simon Effenberg  
> > wrote:
> > 
> > > On Wed, 25 Sep 2013 09:15:33 -0400
> > > Matthew Von-Maszewski  wrote:
> > > 
> > >> - run Riak repair on the vnode so that leveldb can create a MANIFEST 
> > >> that matches the files remaining.
> > > 
> > > what do you mean with this? Wait for AAE? Request each key to trigger
> > > read repair or do I miss something?
> > > 
> > > We are in a similar situation.. only sst\_4 exists in our situation but
> > > we also delete old stuff regularly..
> > > 
> > > Cheers
> > > Simon 
> > > 
> > > \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> > > riak-users mailing list
> > > riak-users@lists.basho.com
> > > http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> > 
> 
> 
> -- 
> Simon Effenberg | Site Ops Engineer | mobile.international GmbH
> Fon: + 49-(0)30-8109 - 7173
> Fax: + 49-(0)30-8109 - 7131
> 
> Mail: seffenb...@team.mobile.de
> Web: www.mobile.de
> 
> Marktplatz 1 | 14532 Europarc Dreilinden | Germany
> 
> 
> Geschäftsführer: Malte Krüger
> HRB Nr.: 18517 P, Amtsgericht Potsdam
> Sitz der Gesellschaft: Kleinmachnow 
> 
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com


-- 
Simon Effenberg | Site Ops Engineer | mobile.international GmbH
Fon: + 49-(0)30-8109 - 7173
Fax: + 49-(0)30-8109 - 7131

Mail: seffenb...@team.mobile.de
Web: www.mobile.de

Marktplatz 1 | 14532 Europarc Dreilinden | Germany


Geschäftsführer: Malte Krüger
HRB Nr.: 18517 P, Amtsgericht Potsdam
Sitz der Gesellschaft: Kleinmachnow 

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

