---
title: "Re: Bucket creation."
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-02-06T06:47:05-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10014"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg10013"
author_name: "Jeremiah Peschka"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-02-06T06:47:05-08:00
---


Kevin - in this specific case, Riak itself will accept a slash in the key
name. It will not, however, accept a slash through the HTTP interface. See
http://riak.markmail.org/search/?q=slash#query:slash+page:1+mid:5j5jb4maepr3epc3+state:resultsThe
short version is that there's no sane way we can safely check strings
for validity since all bucket and key names are valid, but they're
different values of valid depending on the API you're using at the time.

As best as I can tell, there's no restriction on the riak KV side about how
a bucket or key is named. As far as Erlang is concerned it's just a bunch
of bytes masquerading as a string. If you do anything goofy and want that
goofy/unexpected name to work everywhere you need to properly escape your
bucket name. This is similar to how SQL Server requires square brackets
around reserved keywords or database objects with special characters in
their name (e.g. CREATE TABLE [i like data] ( id INT ); ). As long as names
are correctly escaped, you won't run into any problems.

Continuing the same analogy, CorrugatedIron is a lot like ADO.NET. If I
create a SqlCommand with CommandText of "OMGWTFBBQ", The SqlCommand object
doesn't care trying to do or that what I passed in probably isn't valid
T-SQL, it only knows that I've given it a command that needs to be sent to
a SQL Server.

OJ and I have debated how much smarts CorrugatedIron should have. Our
ultimate decision is that it should have just enough smarts to get the job
done and not a speck more. It's a relatively low level client (along the
lines of ADO.NET), but we do what we can to hide a lot of the nastiness
and idiosyncrasies of Riak from the user in places where it might get
confusing. One of the things we hide is the dual nature of Riak's API.
Almost all operations are supported via ProtocolBuffers (which doesn't care
about names) but a few are only supported through HTTP.

I hope this helps clear up some of your questions.

---
Jeremiah Peschka - Founder, Brent Ozar Unlimited
MCITP: SQL Server 2008, MVP
Cloudera Certified Developer for Apache Hadoop


On Wed, Feb 6, 2013 at 5:32 AM, OJ Reeves  wrote:

> I am not aware of the rules in bucket naming, I don't even know if there
> are any or if they're documented anywhere. All I can say is that I wouldn't
> personally use a forward-slash because it's an obvious conflict with other
> areas of the system.
>
> OJ
>
> On Wed, Feb 6, 2013 at 10:44 PM, Kevin Burton wrote:
>
>> The set properties method returns without error on the "illegally named"
>> bucket as do all of the put operations. It is just the get properties
>> operation that returns an error. If the bucket is indeed improperly named
>> then the bug is in the operations that allow the bucket name. Right?
>>
>> On Feb 5, 2013, at 10:44 PM, Alexander Moore 
>> wrote:
>>
>> I think the problem you are having here is that you are using an invalid
>> bucket name.
>>
>> "buyseasons/products" would actually refer to a bucket/key pair. Riak
>> doesn't have nested buckets.
>>
>> If you change your bucket name to "buyseasons-products" or
>> "buyseasons%20products" it should work.
>>
>> As for the weird/misleading exception, I'll report it to CorrugatedIron.
>>
>> Thanks,
>> Alex Moore
>>
>>
>> I still have a question. Based on your input I modified the code slightly
>>> as follows:
>>>
>>> \*\* \*\*
>>>
>>> RiakBucketProperties bucketProperties = new
>>> RiakBucketProperties();\*\*\*\*
>>>
>>> bucketProperties.SetNVal(4);\*\*\*\*
>>>
>>> bucketProperties.SetSearch(true);\*\*\*\*
>>>
>>> bucketProperties.SetAllowMultiple(true);\*\*\*\*
>>>
>>> bucketProperties.SetWVal("all");\*\*\*\*
>>>
>>> bucketProperties.SetRVal("quorum");\*\*\*\*
>>>
>>> if (!client.SetBucketProperties("buyseasons/products",
>>> bucketProperties).IsSuccess)\*\*\*\*
>>>
>>> {\*\*\*\*
>>>
>>> Console.WriteLine("Setting bucket properties failed");\*\*
>>> \*\*
>>>
>>> }\*\*\*\*
>>>
>>> RiakResult riakBuckpropertiesResult =
>>> client.GetBucketProperties("buyseasons/products", true);\*\*\*\*
>>>
>>> \*\* \*\*
>>>
>>> But I get a NullReferenceException\*\*\*\*
>>>
>>> \*\* \*\*
>>>
>>> at CorrugatedIron.Models.RiakBucketProperties.ReadQuorum(JObject
>>> props, String key, Action`1 setter)\*\*\*\*
>>>
>>> at CorrugatedIron.Models.RiakBucketProperties..ctor(RiakRestResponse
>>> response)\*\*\*\*
>>>
>>> at CorrugatedIron.RiakClient.GetBucketProperties(String bucket,
>>> Boolean extended)\*\*\*\*
>>>
>>> . . . . .\*\*\*\*
>>>
>>> \*\* \*\*
>>>
>>> So the bucket should have been created when I set the properties. But
>>> then I tried to read the properties back and I get the exception.\*\*\*\*
>>>
>>> \*\* \*\*
>>>
>>> \*From:\* Alexander Sicular [mailto:sicul...@gmail.com]
>>> \*Sent:\* Tuesday, February 05, 2013 5:17 PM
>>> \*To:\* Kevin Burton
>>> \*Cc:\* riak-users
>>> \*Subject:\* Re: Bucket creation.\*\*\*\*
>>>
>>> \*\* \*\*
>>>
>>> "buckets" are a virtual concept. you dont need to "create" them. just
>>> write a key to any bucket. also by modifying the default bucket parameters,
>>> by adding the search hook on a bucket, let's say, you are also "creating"
>>> the bucket.\*\*\*\*
>>>
>>> \*\* \*\*
>>>
>>> -alexander\*\*\*\*
>>>
>>> \*\* \*\*
>>>
>>> On Tue, Feb 5, 2013 at 6:09 PM, Kevin Burton 
>>> wrote:\*\*\*\*
>>>
>>> \*\*\*\*
>>>
>>> I have filed to find code that would create a bucket. It must be in the
>>> past I have just put objects into a bucket and Riak must construct the
>>> bucket if it does not exist. Now I would like to create the bucket and set
>>> some properties on that bucket. But I don’t know how to create the bucket.
>>> \*\*\*\*
>>>
>>> \*\*\*\*
>>>
>>> So I have code like:\*\*\*\*
>>>
>>> \*\*\*\*
>>>
>>> BuildProduct(source, destination);\*\*\*\*
>>>
>>> RiakObject value = new RiakObject("products",
>>> keySku, JsonConvert.SerializeObject(destination))\*\*\*\*
>>>
>>> {\*\*\*\*
>>>
>>> ContentType = "application/json"\*\*\*\*
>>>
>>> };\*\*\*\*
>>>
>>> \*\*\*\*
>>>
>>> RiakResult response =
>>> client.Put(value, new RiakPutOptions { W = 2 });\*\*\*\*
>>>
>>> \*\*\*\*
>>>
>>> But I would like to create the bucket and set properties on the bucket
>>> before I put things into the bucket. Like:\*\*\*\*
>>>
>>> \*\*\*\*
>>>
>>> RiakResult riakBuckpropertiesResult =
>>> client.GetBucketProperties("products", true);\*\*\*\*
>>>
>>> if (riakBuckpropertiesResult.IsSuccess)\*\*\*\*
>>>
>>> {\*\*\*\*
>>>
>>> riakBuckpropertiesResult.Value
>>>
>>
>>
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>
>>
>
>
> --
>
> OJ Reeves
> +61 431 952 586
> http://buffered.io/
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

