---
title: "Re: Invalid hintfiles"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-09-18T20:57:43-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12321"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12320"
author_name: "Andrew Stone"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-09-18T20:57:43-07:00
---


Good to hear. :)


On Wed, Sep 18, 2013 at 11:52 PM, Toby Corkindale <
toby.corkind...@strategicdata.com.au> wrote:

> Hi Andrew,
> Thanks for that -- so far things are looking stable after making that
> change.
>
> -T
>
>
> On 19/09/13 13:27, Andrew Stone wrote:
>
>> Hi Toby,
>>
>> Can you try raising the pb\_backlog to 128 in your riak app.config on
>> each node. It's likely those disconnect errors are left over from the
>> stampede of connections from the CS connection pool on startup. For one
>> reason or another the resets don't come through and the hanging
>> disconnected socket isn't discovered until the next send attempt.
>>
>> -Andrew
>>
>>
>> On Wed, Sep 18, 2013 at 10:31 PM, Toby Corkindale
>> 
>> >>
>> wrote:
>>
>> On 19/09/13 11:17, Luke Bakken wrote:
>>
>> The "error: disconnected" message is a good clue. If you can
>> provide
>> log files that may point to the cause.
>>
>>
>> See below for logs from riak and riak cs, for a roughly five minute
>> window during which I'd fiddled with the load balancer and DNS to
>> try and isolate this server from other requests, and only send mine
>> to it.
>>
>> Unfortunately I really don't see much in there apart from the
>> disconnected messages. I did note that there were warnings about
>> system hitting high watermarks for memory at one point though.
>> That's a bit odd, as the machine wasn't near max capacity at any
>> point - it's only 8GB, but 'free' was reporting that most was being
>> used just for buffers and cache at the time; as follows:
>>
>> ie.
>> total used free shared buffers
>> cached
>> Mem: 8176412 3803404 4373008 0 34112
>> 3052340
>> -/+ buffers/cache: 716952 7459460
>> Swap: 3903484 0 3903484
>>
>>
>>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

