---
title: "Re: Riak TS Performance for analytical queries"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2017-06-29T03:05:46-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg18304"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg18302"
author_name: "Grigory Fateyev"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2017-06-29T03:05:46-07:00
---


Hello!

I'm not sure but seems this can help:

> In interactive mode, which is default, only some code is loaded during
system startup, basically the modules needed by the runtime system. Other
code is dynamically loaded when first referenced. When a call to a function
in a certain module is made, and the module is not loaded, the code server
searches for and tries to load the module.[1]

[1]: http://erlang.org/doc/man/code.html

2017-06-19 11:13 GMT+03:00 Daniel Eberhardt 
:

> Hi,
>
>
>
> I’m a software engineer from Germany and testing the performance of a
> single-node Riak TS 1.40 via the Java Client at the moment.
>
>
>
> Therefore I query statements like ‘\*select sum(value) from tsdata where time 
> > '" \*+ day + \*"' and time < '" \*+ tomorrow + \*"';"\*’
>
>
>
> Now I’ve recognised the following issue: The first query I sent to Riak
> TS is always incredible slow, but the queries I start afterwards, are more
> than 20x faster. And while executing these queries, it doesn’t matter if
> I query the same data or other data in another table/bucket.
>
>
>
> Do you have any reasons for this behaviour? I would be interested to know
> why the first query is so slow and whether this behaviour is usual.
>
>
>
> Thank you in advance.
>
> Daniel
>
>
>
>
>
> Daniel Eberhardt
>
> Dualer Student - Wirtschaftsinformatik
>
>
>
>
>
> eXXcellent solutions
>
> Beim Alten Fritz 2
> 89075 Ulm
> +49 731 550 26 770
>
> daniel.eberha...@exxcellent.de
>
> www.exxcellent.de
>
>
>
> eXXcellent solutions gmbh
> Geschäftsführer: Dr. Martina Burgetsmeier,
> Gerhard Gruber, Wilhelm Zorn
> Sitz und Registergericht: Ulm, HRB-Nr. 4309
>
>
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

