---
title: "Re: Long delays when trying to recover from errors in Java client at	startup"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2017-05-22T00:15:45-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg18229"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg18227"
author_name: "Magnus Kessler"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2017-05-22T00:15:45-07:00
---


On 22 May 2017 at 07:02, Toby Corkindale  wrote:

> Hi,
> I've been trying to make a JVM-based app have better error recovery when
> the Riak cluster is still in a starting-up state.
> I have a fairly naive wait-loop that tries to connect and list buckets,
> and if there's an exception, retry again after a short delay.
>
> However once the Riak cluster comes good, the java client hangs on the
> first operation it makes, for a really long time. Minutes.
> -- in particular, at com.basho.riak.client.core.
> RiakCluster.retryOperation(RiakCluster.java:479)
>
> I've tried shutting down and recreating the RiakClient between attempts,
> but this doesn't seem to help.
> I guess the node manager has its own back-offs and delays.. Is there a way
> to reduce these timeouts?
>
> Thanks,
> Toby
>
>
Hi Toby,

Using bucket listing as a method to determine live-ness is a really bad
idea. Bucket-listing, just as key-listing, requires a coverage query across
ALL objects stored in the cluster, and will take a really long time if the
cluster contains many objects.

A better alternative would be to have a canary object with a known key,
that can be read quickly.

In startup scripts, that need to wait until Riak KV is operational, we
recommend using `riak-admin wait-for-service riak\_kv`.

Kind Regards,

Magnus

-- 
Magnus Kessler
Client Services Engineer
Basho Technologies Limited

Registered Office - 8 Lincoln’s Inn Fields London WC2A 3BP Reg 07970431
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

