---
title: "Re: Using UUID as keys is problematic for Riak Search"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-08-10T17:12:08-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14633"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14632"
author_name: "Eric Redmond"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-08-10T17:12:08-07:00
---


You're expected to base 64 encode it. UUID is simply the kind of value it expects, like a date or an integer.
Eric Redmond, Engineer @ Basho
On Sun, Aug 10, 2014 at 5:03 PM, David James  wrote:Thanks for the quick responses.Eric: I don't understand. Why does Solr have the UUIDField (http://lucene.apache.org/solr/4\_7\_0/solr-core/org/apache/solr/schema/UUIDField.html) if it were not indexable? What is the nature of the limitation?
Jason: Thanks, I will consider Base 64 encoding.On Sun, Aug 10, 2014 at 7:19 PM, Jason Campbell  wrote:


I like UUIDs for everything as well, although I expected compatibility issues with something. Base 64 encoding the binary value is a nice compromise for me, and takes 22 characters (if you drop the padding) instead of the usual 36 for the hyphenated hex format.


It would still require re encoding all the keys, but it's a partial solutions. 
 
 
 
From: Eric RedmondSent: Monday, 11 August 2014 9:15 AMTo: David JamesCc: riak-usersSubject: Re: Using UUID as keys is problematic for Riak Search

You're correct that yokozuna only supports utf8, because the Solr interface only supports utf8 (note that the failure happens when attempting to build a non-utf8 JSON add document command). There's not much we can do here at the moment, since we've yet to (if ever) support a custom interface to Solr that accepts arbitrary binary values. In the mean time, to use yokozuna, you'll have to encode your keys to utf8.
Eric Redmond, Engineer @ Basho
On Sun, Aug 10, 2014 at 4:01 PM, David James  wrote:
I'm using UUIDs for keys in Riak -- converted to bytes, not UTF-8 strings. (I'd rather spend 16 bytes for each key, not 36.)As I understand it, Yokozuna maps the Riak key to \_yz\_id.
Here is the suggested schema from the documentation:


Would you expect this to work with Riak Search? I would hope so.(Or must keys be UTF-8 strings?)I get this error, which does not surprise me, given that the \_yz\_id is defined as a string:

==> log/error.log <==
2014-08-10 18:24:16.221 [error] <0.610.0>@yz\_kv:index:206 failed to index object {<<"test-0001">>,<<94,143,33,35,45,180,78,164,151,237,72,81,56,13,28,250>>} with error {ucs,{bad\_utf8\_character\_code}} because [{xmerl\_ucs,from\_utf8,1,[{file,"xmerl\_ucs.erl"},{line,185}]},{mochijson2,json\_encode\_string,2,[{file,"src/mochijson2.erl"},{line,186}]},{mochijson2,'-json\_encode\_proplist/2-fun-0-',3,[{file,"src/mochijson2.erl"},{line,167}]},{lists,foldl,3,[{file,"lists.erl"},{line,1248}]},{mochijson2,json\_encode\_proplist,2,[{file,"src/mochijson2.erl"},{line,170}]},{mochijson2,'-json\_encode\_proplist/2-fun-0-',3,[{file,"src/mochijson2.erl"},{line,167}]},{lists,foldl,3,[{file,"lists.erl"},{line,1248}]},{mochijson2,json\_encode\_proplist,2,[{file,"src/mochijson2.erl"},{line,170}]}]
I don't think changing the schema.xml type for \_yz\_id to "solr.UUIDField" is a good idea.What can I do?Thanks,David


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

