---
title: "Re: Riak-CS-Control"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-07-02T18:37:14-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11381"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg11380"
author_name: "Christopher Meiklejohn"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-07-02T18:37:14-07:00
---


Hi Guy, 

When you say nothing starts, can you provide the output of running something 
like 'riak console' so we can try to figure out what is happening?

- Chris 

-- 
Christopher Meiklejohn
Software Engineer
Basho Technologies, Inc.



On Tuesday, July 2, 2013 at 9:32 PM, Guy Morton wrote:

> The issue I have is, I think, network/IP config related.
> 
> I am totally confused as to HOW each app should be configured. Documentation 
> (eg http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/cookbooks/Basic-Cluster-Setup/) says 
> configure everything with the IP of the machine the app is running on, but 
> when I do that nothing starts. The only way I can configure it to make it 
> start is using 127.0.0.1.
> 
> I'm just trying to set up a single node that runs all the apps and is 
> accessible by another machine. It seems a simple use-case but the only 
> documentation I can find doesn't give me any way to make that happen.
> 
> And it's frustrating, because when it fails it gives no useful pointers as to 
> why, and when it looks like it's sorta working, it still fails to work 
> properly and, again, gives no useful clues as to what's wrong or how to fix 
> it.
> 
> Tearing my hair out here.
> 
> --
> Guy Morton
> Web Development Manager
> Brüel & Kjær EMS
> 
> 
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> From: riak-users [riak-users-boun...@lists.basho.com 
> (mailto:riak-users-boun...@lists.basho.com)] on behalf of Toby Corkindale 
> [toby.corkind...@strategicdata.com.au 
> (mailto:toby.corkind...@strategicdata.com.au)]
> Sent: Wednesday, 3 July 2013 10:51 AM
> To: Sean Cribbs
> Cc: riak-users
> Subject: Re: Riak-CS-Control
> 
> On 02/07/13 22:51, Sean Cribbs wrote:
> > On Tue, Jul 2, 2013 at 5:34 AM, Toby Corkindale
> >  > (mailto:toby.corkind...@strategicdata.com.au)
> > > wrote:
> > 
> > Riak (and Riak CS and Stanchion) all assume some level of competence
> > at Erlang. I found Riak was tricky to get running, but had picked up
> > enough knowledge of Erlang's strange syntax and foibles from working
> > with RabbitMQ.
> > 
> > 
> > This assumption is EXACTLY why we publish our own binary packages. You
> > don't need to know Erlang to run Riak, and haven't for years. When you
> > become an advanced user, yes, it is helpful, but it is not strictly
> > necessary. This is especially true of CS, and I'd much rather get the
> > bottom of Guy's problem than quibble about how hard Riak is to use
> > "because Erlang".
> 
> 
> 
> Oh, no, I feel you've misunderstood me slightly. I'm not blaming all
> difficulties upon Erlang - however the way Erlang is used does bring
> some added complexities to the party that can and will confuse people.
> In particular, using Erlang syntax for the configuration file, and
> outputting errors in the same way.
> 
> The configuration format \*is\* hard to understand, and it's easy to break
> it while making what should be simple changes.
> 
> Have a look at a typical error thrown by Riak or Riak CS -- it's an
> extremely dense Erlang stack trace.
> 
> Erlang's clustering requires open networking, or more advanced
> configuration if using host firewall.
> 
> 
> Don't misunderstand me -- I kinda like Erlang and have seen some great
> open source products built upon it.
> 
> > We are working on exactly these problems, but they are difficult to get
> > right. Any suggestions on config syntaxes that work well for other
> > products are appreciated. For now we're looking at a format that
> > resembles sysctl.
> 
> 
> 
> Another common one is the Apache-style, eg.
> 
> 
> Key Value
> 
> 
> 
> 
> -Toby
> 
> 
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> 
> This e-mail is confidential and may be read, copied and used only by the 
> intended recipient. If you have received it in error, please contact the 
> sender immediately by return e-mail. Please then delete the e-mail and do not 
> disclose its contents to any other person.
> 
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com




\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

