---
title: "Re: Javascript MapReduce fails Erlang succeeds"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-08-16T10:48:09-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12065"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12059"
author_name: "Doug Read"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-08-16T10:48:09-07:00
---


So you are right about the characters in the json, I remove most of the
key, just leaving some valid json with the special characters, it produces
the same error.

A simple node program which reads the json from file and does JSON.parse;
this succeeds.

var fs = require("fs");

fs.readFile("/tmp/bucket\_export/s/e/a/searches\_bad.json", function(err,
data) {
 console.log(data);
 var json = JSON.parse(data);
 console.log(json);
});

So the javascript VM or something before/after it is having trouble parsing
it but i am not sure how to debug from here.



On Fri, Aug 16, 2013 at 1:58 AM, Christopher Meiklejohn <
cmeiklej...@basho.com> wrote:

> Hi Doug,
>
> Just going through your email again; I just noticed that there is a typo
> in the bucket name between those two commands:
>
> JavaScript:
>
> curl -XPOST http://localhost:8098/mapred -H 'Content-Type:
> application/json' -d '{"inputs":[ [ "aaaaaaaa-4536-9048-87ef2e48ddda",
> "key\_5ad26d0d-4d28-40ca-afcb-1c9895cc5c71" ] ], "query":[ { "map": {
> "name": "Riak.mapValuesJson", "language": "javascript" } }, { "reduce": {
> "name": "Riak.filterNotFound", "language": "javascript" } } ] }'
>
> Erlang:
>
> curl -XPOST http://localhost:8098/mapred -H 'Content-Type:
> application/json' -d '{"inputs":[ [ "aaaaaaaa-50d7-4536-9048-87ef2e48ddda",
> "key\_5ad26d0d-4d28-40ca-afcb-1c9895cc5c71" ] ],
> "query":[{"map":{"language":"erlang","module":"riak\_kv\_mapreduce","function":"map\_object\_value"}}
> ] }'
>
> Specifically, 'aaaaaaaa-4536-9048-87ef2e48ddda' in the failed JavaScript
> command vs 'aaaaaaaa-50d7-4536-9048-87ef2e48ddda' in the successful Erlang
> command.
>
> I've verified this is triggering not\_founds in the dump you supplied.
>
> - Chris
>
> --
> Christopher Meiklejohn
> Software Engineer
> Basho Technologies, Inc.
>
>
>
> On Friday, August 16, 2013 at 1:36 AM, Doug Read wrote:
>
> > No problem.
> >
> > Riak 1.3.1
> > Have reproduced the error on 1.3.1 Mac osx and 1.4.1 on Ubuntu. I am on
> my phone now I'll get the build and package versions.
> >
> > That is the erlang mapreduce, that has always worked it is the
> javascript version that fails. The one I originally posted but basically
> any javascript mapreduce which takes that bucket key as input.
> >
> > On Friday, August 16, 2013, Christopher Meiklejohn wrote:
> > > Hi Doug,
> > >
> > > First, my apologies. I confused two email responses I was writing, and
> that's why my previous e-mail was a bit out of context.
> > >
> > > I've loaded your backup file into a locally built cluster here off of
> the Riak 1.2 branch, but I'm still unable to reproduce the issue using the
> following map/reduce command:
> > >
> > > curl -XPOST http://localhost:8098/mapred -H 'Content-Type:
> application/json' -d '{"inputs":[ [ "aaaaaaaa-50d7-4536-9048-87ef2e48ddda",
> "key\_5ad26d0d-4d28-40ca-afcb-1c9895cc5c71" ] ],
> "query":[{"map":{"language":"erlang","module":"riak\_kv\_mapreduce","function":"map\_object\_value"}}
> ] }'
> > >
> > > Can you please provide which operating system, build, and package
> version of Riak you are running?
> > >
> > > - Chris
> > >
> > > --
> > > Christopher Meiklejohn
> > > Software Engineer
> > > Basho Technologies, Inc.
> > >
> > >
> > >
> > > On Friday, August 16, 2013 at 1:23 AM, Christopher Meiklejohn wrote:
> > >
> > > > Hi Doug,
> > > >
> > > > Can you provide more information as to how you build the image with
> Vagrant so I can try to reproduce it? The configuration alone isn't going
> to be enough as this appears to be a systems related issue.
> > > >
> > > > - Chris
> > > >
> > > > --
> > > > Christopher Meiklejohn
> > > > Software Engineer
> > > > Basho Technologies, Inc.
> > > >
> > > >
> > > >
> > > > On Friday, August 16, 2013 at 1:20 AM, Doug Read wrote:
> > > >
> > > > > Hi Chris,
> > > > >
> > > > > I made a riak-admin backup of the key which reproduces the issue.
> I was wondering if you could give me some direction of how to debug the
> issue.
> > > > >
> > > > > thanks
> > > > > doug
> > > > >
> > > > >
> > > > >
> > > > > On Thu, Aug 15, 2013 at 3:41 PM, Chris Meiklejohn <
> cmeiklej...@basho.com (mailto:cmeiklej...@basho.com)> wrote:
> > > > > > The best guess I have at this point is probably something
> related to character encoding, but without a reproduction case, I'm not
> able to debug it any further.
> > > > > >
> > > > > > Good luck with the upgrade tonight!
> > > > > >
> > > > > > - Chris
> > > > > >
> > > > > >
> > > > > > On Thu, Aug 15, 2013 at 3:39 PM, Doug Read 
> > > > > >  doug.r...@qnary.com)> wrote:
> > > > > > > I redirected the output of curl into a file on an ubuntu box.
> I am upgrading the cluster to 1.4.1 tonight. To your point I PUT the value
> into the key locally (3 node cluster) and couldn't reproduce either. Also i
> am turning on the java vm logging.
> > > > > > >
> > > > > > >
> > > > > > > On Thu, Aug 15, 2013 at 3:33 PM, Chris Meiklejohn <
> cmeiklej...@basho.com (mailto:cmeiklej...@basho.com)> wrote:
> > > > > > > > Hi Doug,
> > > > > > > >
> > > > > > > > I've configured a Riak 1.2 cluster, and run the
> aforementioned map-reduce job in Erlang and I can't trigger the crash. I'm
> getting the expected results of the map/reduce job. How did you send me the
> object that you provided off-list?
> > > > > > > >
> > > > > > > > - Chris
> > > > > > > >
> > > > > > > >
> > > > > > > > On Thu, Aug 15, 2013 at 12:36 PM, Chris Meiklejohn <
> cmeiklej...@basho.com (mailto:cmeiklej...@basho.com)> wrote:
> > > > > > > > > Hi Doug,
> > > > > > > > >
> > > > > > > > > Can you provide a sample of the JSON that you're storing
> in these objects? It appears that mochijson2's tokenizer is crashing
> because it thinks the JSON is not valid, where the Spidermonkey parsing is
> succeeding.
> > > > > > > > >
> > > > > > > > > - Chris
> > > > > > > > >
> > > > > > > > >
> > > > > > > > > On Wed, Aug 14, 2013 at 10:58 AM, Doug Read <
> doug.r...@qnary.com (mailto:doug.r...@qnary.com)> wrote:
> > > > > > > > > > The following MapReduce job fails using javascript but
> succeeds when using erlang.
> > > > > > > > > >
> > > > > > > > > > Riak 1.2.0 2012-0806 Debian x86\_64
> > > > > > > > > > 3 nodes, n\_val=3
> > > > > > > > > >
> > > > > > > > > > Riak diag gives large list of
> > > > > > > > > > [warning] The following preflists do not satisfy the
> n\_val:
> > > > > > > > > > Not really sure what this means but thought i would
> share.
> > > > > > > > > >
> > > > > > > > > > JAVASCRIPT:
> > > > > > > > > > curl -XPOST http://localhost:8098/mapred -H
> 'Content-Type: application/json' -d '{"inputs":[ [
> "aaaaaaaa-4536-9048-87ef2e48ddda",
> "key\_5ad26d0d-4d28-40ca-afcb-1c9895cc5c71" ] ], "query":[ { "map": {
> "name": "Riak.mapValu
> > > > > > > > >
> > > > > > > >
> > > > > > >
> > > > > >
> > > > >
> > > >
> > >
> >
>
>
>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

