---
title: "Re: Riak Search 2.0 Questions"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-07-24T12:43:02-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14548"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14547"
author_name: "Andrew Zeneski"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-07-24T12:43:02-07:00
---


Ryan,

Thank you very much for the detailed explanation! How do you delete an
index? Can I just remove it from the data directory or is that a bad idea?
I think the reload command you provide is what I need right now.

Thanks again!

Andrew


On Thu, Jul 24, 2014 at 12:58 PM, Ryan Zezeski  wrote:

>
> On Jul 24, 2014, at 12:29 PM, Andrew Zeneski 
> wrote:
>
> Been checking out 2.0rc1 and am really excited about the new features (as
> I think most of us are). I had a couple of questions that I couldn't find
> answers to scanning the docs. Totally possible I missed it and if so,
> please feel free to direct me to the proper place.
>
> 1. Is there a way to remove a search index and schema?
>
>
> No, currently you can only store/update a schema.
>
>
> 2. Do indexes just "reference" schemas?
>
>
> An index has an associated schema. When the index is created locally on a
> node it retrieves that schema from an internal store built into Riak and
> writes it to the directory specific to that index. The index uses the
> schema stored in its local directory. Updates to the schema are not
> automatically propagated to the local file.
>
> More specifically, if I update a schema will those changes "propagate" to
> all indexes using that schema?
>
>
> No, you will need to either need to delete the index and recreate or
> attach to the Riak console and run the following command:
>
> rp(yz\_index:reload(<<"index\_name">>)).
>
>
> This command will fetch the latest version of the associated schema for
> the index “index\_name”, overwrite the index’s local schema, and then reload
> that index across the entire cluster.
>
> Why is this all so awkward? Some of the gory details can be found in
> these two issues if you really want to know:
>
> https://github.com/basho/yokozuna/issues/130
> https://github.com/basho/yokozuna/issues/403
>
>
> The reason I ask is I've been experimenting with simple searching and
> found in the logs an error indexing a document due to unknown fields. I
> realized I missed the catch all dynamic field in my schema and updated it.
> After updating I ran the test again (after deleting any existing data) but
> the error persists. Leading me to believe that the schema isn't updating.
> But when I view the schema $RIAK\_HOST/search/schema/testschema I see the
> updates.
>
>
> Yes, the schema itself has been updated but, as explained above, it is
> once removed from the index and not automatically reloaded.
>
> -Z
>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

