---
title: "Re: Limiting the number of entries in a set"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-01-31T15:52:27-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15623"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15621"
author_name: "Shawn Debnath"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-01-31T15:52:27-08:00
---


Thanks Alexander. Yep I understand the differences in Riak and Redis as far as 
type and implementation goes. I referred to the LTRIM feature to focus the 
discussion a bit. I am trying to reduce overhead where possible and looks like 
Riak can deliver the features Redis does, and then some, with a bit of our code 
change. I think its better in the long run anyways.

Yep, those Basho guys definitely have their hands full, hoping down the line 
they will start to build in more of theses ease of access features.

On 1/31/15, 1:40 PM, "Alexander Sicular" 
> wrote:

Shawn,

I just want to reiterate that Redis data types and Riak data types are not 
directly comparable. Riak data types are specifically designed to work in a 
fully distributed and automatically convergent environment. And they service 
that design very well. Redis data types work the way they work because of the 
nature of Redis itself - in memory, single threaded data store.

I know that the engineering team at Basho are continuously evaluating new data 
types and new capabilities for inclusion in Riak. Your feedback and questions 
directly impact the product road map. Thanks for letting us know what you're 
looking to do and how you would like to use Riak.

Best,
Alexander

On Sat, Jan 31, 2015 at 3:01 PM, Alexander Sicular 
> wrote:
Riak sets (and data types by extension) are good but not great. The are gonna 
get better over time but still be saddled with the difficulties of 
distribution. Redis is able to do what it does because a. It's not distributed 
and b. It's single threaded. I recommend that if you need the atomic guarantees 
of redis data types you go ahead and use them. And then periodically flush your 
redis data to riak for high availability and fault tolerant backup. It's not 
elegant, it has edge case scenarios but it gets you a best of both worlds 
solution.

Best,
Alexander


@siculars
http://siculars.posthaven.com

Sent from my iRotaryPhone

On Jan 31, 2015, at 13:11, Shawn Debnath 
> wrote:

Good morning,

Wondering if there is a better way to do truncation of a set if entries exceed 
a certain threshold. I am trying to create a canonical timeline for every user 
in our system, set of UUID strings. We want the number of entries to be limited 
to about 1000 per timeline to keep the size of each KV object in check inside 
Riak and also not store unnecessary data. From looking around code and docs, 
there doesn’t seem to be a Redis style LTRIM 
option available. So is the only way to enforce this is to fetch the set, check 
count, trim it locally and then update?

My fear is that by using CRDTs, a set add wins over remove in the case of a 
conflict. If there were to be 1000 conflicting concurrent updates each trying 
to trim and add one entry to a set that already contains 1000 entries, I 
imagine the final count of the set would be 2000. This can be greatly 
exasperated on a very “friendly” or popular person’s timeline and the code 
never being able to truncate the set back to 1000.

Any thoughts or suggestions appreciated.

Thanks,

Shawn
freenode (sde)
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

