---
title: "Re: Split index with Riak 2.0 git (jan 15th) on a single dev node	cluster"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-04-01T07:57:48-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13962"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13443"
author_name: "John O'Brien"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-04-01T07:57:48-07:00
---


Ryan,

Apologies on the long post delay. We pushed from pre11 to pre20, and
figured out the issue. It looks like we had a mismatch between the
n-val on the bucket, vs the n-val on the seach\_index... Pre20 throws
an error telling us to stop being stupid.

It does however allow us to change the n-val after linking the index
to the bucket, so I would wager a guess that this might induce the
same issue we saw before. We will test a bit to confirm when we get
the chance, but I welcome sage advice as to the logic behind this.

J

On Wed, Jan 22, 2014 at 12:10 AM, Ryan Zezeski  wrote:
> John,
>
> 1. What did you use to load the data? Do you have a script?
>
> 2. What content-type is the data?
>
> 3. Do you see any errors in the log directory? Check error.log and solr.log.
>
> 4. Do you get any results for the query q=\_yz\_err:1
>
>
> 6. What version of Riak are you using?
>
>
> -Z
>
>
> On Tue, Jan 21, 2014 at 1:46 PM, John O'Brien  wrote:
>>
>> Issue:
>>
>> When running searchs against a single dev node cluster, pre-populated
>> with 1000 keys, bitcask backend, search=on and a /search/svan?q=\*
>> search URI, the solr response is coming back with three different
>> resultsets, 330 values, the other 354, the other 345. The range of
>> keys 0-1000 are split in no obvious pattern between the 3 result
>> shards..
>>
>> Anyone have any clue as to what I may have messed up in the config? I
>> assume this is not expected behaviour.
>>
>> Other than that, it works great. ;)
>>
>> Cheers,
>>
>> John
>>
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

