---
title: "Re: Riak CS : "405 (Method Not Allowed)" when creating a bucket"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-03-22T00:30:06-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10553"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg10552"
author_name: "Dan Reverri"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-03-22T00:30:06-07:00
---


Hi Jean-Baptiste,

Can you try updating the "host\_base" and "host\_bucket" in s3cfg to use
"riakcs.dev" which is the "cs\_root\_host" configured in your Riak CS
app.config?

host\_base = riakcs.dev
host\_bucket = %(bucket)s.riakcs.dev


Thanks,
Dan

Daniel Reverri
Client Architect
Basho Technologies, Inc.
d...@basho.com


On Fri, Mar 22, 2013 at 12:03 AM, Jean-Baptiste Barth <
jeanbaptiste.ba...@gmail.com> wrote:

> 2013/3/22 Kelly McLaughlin 
>
>> Jean-Baptiste,
>>
>> It seems like something is not properly configured, but I am not really
>> able to spot anything obvious that is wrong from the gist you provided.
>> What operating system are you testing on and are you using packages or have
>> you built from source? Could you also gist your riak\_cs app.config?
>
>
> As Tyler guessed I used the tutorial here:
> http://docs.basho.com/riakcs/latest/tutorials/fast-track/Building-a-Virtual-Test-Environment/so
> I confirm I used
> https://github.com/hectcastro/vagrant-riak-cs-cluster and left the
> Vagrantfile nearly untouched, with Ubuntu 12.04 by default. I just added
> some paths at the top of the file because I use RVM for my ruby
> environments and Vagrant was unable to find berkshelf, but I'm pretty sure
> it has nothing to do with the actual problem.
>
> Here's a gist of my config files (untouched until you asked me if my
> credentials were valid, they were deployed by the chef recipe or in the
> vagrant template I guess) : https://gist.github.com/jbbarth/5219485
>
> I can try the install with CentOS tomorrow if you want. Also it would be
> great if one of you can gist the output of a successful "s3cmd --debug mb
> s3://test-bucket" so I can dig into the issue myself a bit more.
>
> Thanks for your time, much appreciated :)
>
> Cheers,
>
> Jean-Baptiste
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

