---
title: "Re: OSX Riak 1.4 Internal Server Error on all map reduce jobs"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-10-08T12:12:43-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12548"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12512"
author_name: "Luke Bakken"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-10-08T12:12:43-07:00
---


Hi Jeff,

Just for kicks, change your machine's time zone to GMT, verify via the
"date" command, and re-try the Erlang snippet.

--
Luke Bakken
CSE
lbak...@basho.com


On Thu, Oct 3, 2013 at 6:38 PM, jeffrey k eliasen  wrote:

> Interesting… looks like that Erlang doesn't like something. I don't
> actually know what to do from here (Erlang is still a big black box to me).
>
> escorpiao:~ seawolf$ /usr/local/Cellar/riak/1.4.1/erts-5.9.1/bin/erl
> Erlang R15B01 (erts-5.9.1) [source] [64-bit] [smp:4:4] [async-threads:0]
> [kernel-poll:false]
>
> Eshell V5.9.1 (abort with ^G)
> 1> erlang:localtime\_to\_universaltime({{2013,9,28},{8,0,35}}, true).
> \*\* exception error: bad argument
> in function erlang:localtime\_to\_universaltime/2
> called as
> erlang:localtime\_to\_universaltime({{2013,9,28},{8,0,35}},true)
> 2> q().
> ok
>
>
> ----------
>
> jeffrey k eliasen - technologist
> blog  | 
> linkedin|
> google+  | 
> facebook|
> twitter 
>
> On Oct 4, 2013, at 05:39 , Luke Bakken  wrote:
>
> Homebrew installed Riak will use the Erlang located in this directory:
>
> /usr/local/Cellar/riak/1.4.2/erts-5.9.1/bin/erl
>
> Could you retry the code snippet using the erl located there? Also, the
> output of which -a erl could be useful. I think you should uninstall your
> homebrew-installed Erlang as it's a more recent version than the one
> installed via homebrew for Riak. Personally I use kerl to manage Erlang
> versions instead of homebrew.
>
> Thanks
> --
> Luke Bakken
> CSE
> lbak...@basho.com
>
>
> On Wed, Oct 2, 2013 at 7:25 PM, jeffrey k eliasen  wrote:
>
>> Thanks for looking into this!
>>
>> Same machine:
>>
>> escorpiao:programming\_in\_c seawolf$ date
>> Thu Oct 3 10:22:31 BNT 2013
>> escorpiao:programming\_in\_c seawolf$ erl
>> Erlang R16B01 (erts-5.10.2) [source] [64-bit] [smp:4:4]
>> [async-threads:10] [hipe] [kernel-poll:false] [dtrace]
>>
>> Eshell V5.10.2 (abort with ^G)
>> 1> erlang:localtime\_to\_universaltime({{2013,9,28},{8,0,35}}, true).
>> {{2013,9,28},{0,0,35}}
>> 2> q().
>> ok
>> escorpiao:programming\_in\_c seawolf$
>>
>> How do I know for sure that I'm using the same Erlang binary as Riak is?
>> I installed it via Homebrew and don't know off the top of my head how to
>> verify which Erlang it's picking up (or if I even have more than one).
>>
>> --
>>
>> jeffrey k eliasen
>>
>> Find and follow me on:
>> Blog: http://jeff.jke.net
>> Twitter: http://twitter.com/jeffreyeliasen
>> Facebook: http://facebook.com/jeffrey.eliasen
>>
>> On Oct 2, 2013, at 23:44 , Luke Bakken  wrote:
>>
>> Hi Jeff,
>>
>> Can you provide the output of the date command on the machine where Riak
>> is running as well as the one from which you're running curl? I'm
>> assuming it's the same workstation, but I'd like to be sure.
>>
>> Based on the stack traces you provide, the 
>> localtime\_to\_universaltimefunction is failing when called with
>> [{{2013,9,28},{8,0,35}},true] as the arguments, which really doesn't
>> make sense.
>>
>> Could you run that method via the erl command in the Erlang build used
>> by your Riak installation? I have built Riak from source so erl is in the
>> erts-5.9.1/bin directory, for instance:
>>
>> lbakken ~/Projects/basho/riak\_ee-1.4/dev/dev1/erts-5.9.1/bin
>> ((riak\_ee-1.4.2))
>> $ ./erl
>> Erlang R15B01 (erts-5.9.1) [source] [64-bit] [smp:8:8] [async-threads:0]
>> [kernel-poll:false]
>>
>> Eshell V5.9.1 (abort with ^G)
>> 1> erlang:localtime\_to\_universaltime({{2013,9,28},{8,0,35}}, true).
>> {{2013,9,28},{15,0,35}}
>> 2> q().
>> ok
>>
>> --
>> Luke Bakken
>> CSE
>> lbak...@basho.com
>>
>>
>>
>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

