---
title: "Re: riak-users Digest, Vol 66, Issue 12"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-01-14T16:06:00-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15495"
author_name: "Hiren Shah"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-01-14T16:06:00-08:00

---


http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
unsubscribe

On Wed, Jan 14, 2015 at 12:00 PM, 
wrote:

> Send riak-users mailing list submissions to
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>
> To subscribe or unsubscribe via the World Wide Web, visit
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> or, via email, send a message with subject or body 'help' to
> riak-users-requ...@lists.basho.com
>
> You can reach the person managing the list at
> riak-users-ow...@lists.basho.com
>
> When replying, please edit your Subject line so it is more specific
> than "Re: Contents of riak-users digest..."
>
>
> Today's Topics:
>
> 1. Re: How to find which nodes host a particular bucket/key?
> (Charlie Voiselle)
> 2. Re: RIAK-CS Unable to create bucket using s3cmd -
> AccessDenied (Sellmy Bassamp)
> 3. Disruptor like behaviour (xu xiut)
> 4. Riak control on cluster (Bruno Ren? Santos)
> 5. Re: Riak control on cluster (Chris Meiklejohn)
> 6. Re: Disruptor like behaviour (Sean Cribbs)
>
>
> ----------------------------------------------------------------------
>
> Message: 1
> Date: Tue, 13 Jan 2015 12:14:49 -0500
> From: Charlie Voiselle 
> To: Jay Doane 
> Cc: riak-users@lists.basho.com
> Subject: Re: How to find which nodes host a particular bucket/key?
> Message-ID: 
> Content-Type: text/plain; charset="us-ascii"
>
> You can use the following Erlang snippet in `riak attach`:
>
> N=3,
> {ok,Ring} = riak\_core\_ring\_manager:get\_my\_ring(),
> DocIdx = riak\_core\_util:chash\_key({<<"my\_bucket">>, <<"my\_key">>}),
> <> = DocIdx,
> Preflist = riak\_core\_ring:preflist(DocIdx, Ring),
> {Targets, Fallbacks} = lists:split(N, Preflist),
> Targets.
>
> Verify that `N` matches your clusters N-val. Change `my\_bucket` and
> `my\_key` as appropriate. If all of your nodes are up and healthy, this
> will give you the primaries in the `Targets` variable and the fallback
> partitions in order of preference in `Fallbacks`.
>
> Regards,
> Charlie Voiselle
> Basho Client Services
>
>
> > On Jan 12, 2015, at 4:28 PM, Jay Doane  wrote:
> >
> > Can anyone suggest how to determine the nodes on which a particular
> bucket/key are hosted in a cluster?
> >
> > Thanks,
> > Jay
> >
> >
> > \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> > riak-users mailing list
> > riak-users@lists.basho.com
> > http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
> -------------- next part --------------
> An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
> URL: <
> http://lists.basho.com/pipermail/riak-users\_lists.basho.com/attachments/20150113/713750f3/attachment-0001.html
> >
>
> ------------------------------
>
> Message: 2
> Date: Tue, 13 Jan 2015 18:49:07 +0000 (UTC)
> From: Sellmy Bassamp 
> To: Shunichi Shinohara 
> Cc: "riak-users@lists.basho.com" 
> Subject: Re: RIAK-CS Unable to create bucket using s3cmd -
> AccessDenied
> Message-ID:
> <
> 1100374542.333474.1421174947053.javamail.ya...@jws100193.mail.ne1.yahoo.com
> >
>
> Content-Type: text/plain; charset="utf-8"
>
> Thank-you, that corrected the issue.
>
> On Monday, January 12, 2015 9:00 PM, Shunichi Shinohara <
> sh...@basho.com> wrote:
>
>
> Hi Sellmy,
>
> New versions of s3cmd uses AWS v4 authentication [1] but Riak CS
> does not support it yet [2].
> Tentatively, please add following one line to your .s3cfg file:
> signature\_v2 = True
>
> [1] https://github.com/s3tools/s3cmd/issues/402
> [2] https://github.com/basho/riak\_cs/issues/897
>
> Thanks,
> Shino
>
>
>
> -------------- next part --------------
> An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
> URL: <
> http://lists.basho.com/pipermail/riak-users\_lists.basho.com/attachments/20150113/3850260a/attachment-0001.html
> >
>
> ------------------------------
>
> Message: 3
> Date: Wed, 14 Jan 2015 09:25:25 -0500
> From: xu xiut 
> To: riak-users@lists.basho.com
> Subject: Disruptor like behaviour
> Message-ID:
>  ih...@mail.gmail.com>
> Content-Type: text/plain; charset="utf-8"
>
> Is it possible to mimic most or all of Disruptor's behaviour with Riak?
>
> https://github.com/LMAX-Exchange/disruptor/wiki/Introduction
> -------------- next part --------------
> An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
> URL: <
> http://lists.basho.com/pipermail/riak-users\_lists.basho.com/attachments/20150114/8fb93117/attachment-0001.html
> >
>
> ------------------------------
>
> Message: 4
> Date: Wed, 14 Jan 2015 15:00:03 +0000
> From: Bruno Ren? Santos 
> To: 
> Subject: Riak control on cluster
> Message-ID: <54b68473.3050...@telecom.pt>
> Content-Type: text/plain; charset="utf-8"; format=flowed
>
> Hi,
>
> I have a cluster of 6 machines and wanted to check them using riak
> control. I tried to enabled it on node-01 (riak.conf => riak\_control =
> on), restart riak on that node. But nothing appears on port 8069...
> where else can i configure these parameters? Or check what is wrong?
>
> Thanx
> Bruno
>
>
>
> ------------------------------
>
> Message: 5
> Date: Wed, 14 Jan 2015 16:13:50 +0100
> From: Chris Meiklejohn 
> To: Bruno Ren? Santos 
> Cc: riak-users 
> Subject: Re: Riak control on cluster
> Message-ID:
> <
> cajbra\_nv-spdd6nv4bvgrj54cleauaeleyipuixqo3pygru...@mail.gmail.com>
> Content-Type: text/plain; charset=UTF-8
>
> On Wed, Jan 14, 2015 at 4:00 PM, Bruno Ren? Santos
>  wrote:
> > Hi,
> >
> > I have a cluster of 6 machines and wanted to check them using riak
> control.
> > I tried to enabled it on node-01 (riak.conf => riak\_control = on),
> restart
> > riak on that node. But nothing appears on port 8069... where else can i
> > configure these parameters? Or check what is wrong?
>
> Riak Control, when SSL is enabled, is reachable at '/admin', not at the
> root.
>
> In addition, is SSL enabled and configured? If not, Riak Control will run
> on
> the default HTTP port, which is 8098.
>
> Thanks,
> - Chris
>
>
>
> ------------------------------
>
> Message: 6
> Date: Wed, 14 Jan 2015 09:32:43 -0600
> From: Sean Cribbs 
> To: xu xiut 
> Cc: riak-users 
> Subject: Re: Disruptor like behaviour
> Message-ID:
>  e2d47dwnk+fkfkbjvnt1wnwu8nequpugiaqvpshc3w...@mail.gmail.com>
> Content-Type: text/plain; charset="utf-8"
>
> I think this is a case of asking the wrong question. LMAX Disruptor is a
> single-process abstraction, similar to an event loop / reactor. Erlang
> already has this concept under the covers (use +K on the command-line to
> turn on kernel-polling).
>
> Riak (the product) is a distributed key-value store that runs on multiple
> nodes (OS processes). Riak Core is the framework upon which
> Riak-the-product is built, and provides cluster membership, consistent
> hashing, the virtual-node abstraction, handoff and various other utilities.
> None of these things talk about how work is distributed to multiple
> consumers in a single process. The two have very little in common.
>
> On Wed, Jan 14, 2015 at 8:25 AM, xu xiut  wrote:
>
> > Is it possible to mimic most or all of Disruptor's behaviour with Riak?
> >
> > https://github.com/LMAX-Exchange/disruptor/wiki/Introduction
> >
> > \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> > riak-users mailing list
> > riak-users@lists.basho.com
> > http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> >
> >
>
>
> --
> Sean Cribbs 
> Sr. Software Engineer
> Basho Technologies, Inc.
> http://basho.com/
> -------------- next part --------------
> An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
> URL: <
> http://lists.basho.com/pipermail/riak-users\_lists.basho.com/attachments/20150114/d56a8152/attachment-0001.html
> >
>
> ------------------------------
>
> Subject: Digest Footer
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
> ------------------------------
>
> End of riak-users Digest, Vol 66, Issue 12
> \*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

