---
title: "[ANN] Riak Ruby Client 1.4.0"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-08-16T09:19:38-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12062"
author_name: "Bryce Kerley"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-08-16T09:19:38-07:00

---


Hello Riak users!

We released 1.4.0 of the riak-ruby-client mere minutes ago! This version of the 
gem includes Riak 1.4 feature support, and a few bug fixes:

Features for all Riak versions:

\* Multi-get parallelizes fetching multiple objects from one or more
 buckets.
 
Features for Riak 1.4 and newer:

\* Bucket properties are settable and resettable over Protocol Buffers.
\* Distributed counters are implemented by the `Riak::Counter` class.
\* The full set of improvements to Secondary Indexes
 are available, including pagination, streaming, and return\_terms.
 These features are available through the existing `Bucket#get\_index`
 interface as well as the new `Riak::SecondaryIndex` interface.
\* The new streaming bucket list is available in the Ruby client.
\* Setting timeout values for object CRUD, key listing, and bucket
 listing is now possible.

Bugfixes:

\* Tests pass and don't stall in Ruby 2.0.
\* Zero-length key and bucket names are forbidden in the client.
\* Test server works with Riak 1.4.

The Ruby gem is ready to go at 
https://rubygems.org/gems/riak-client/versions/1.4.0 , and the source code, 
issue tracker, and README are on GitHub at 
https://github.com/basho/riak-ruby-client/tree/v1.4.0 .

Bryce Kerley
Software Engineer
Basho Technologies
br...@basho.com


signature.asc
Description: Message signed with OpenPGP using GPGMail
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

