---
title: "[ANN] RICON East; Open CFP for Riak Talks"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-02-07T13:41:59-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10040"
author_name: "Tom Santero"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-02-07T13:41:59-08:00

---


Hi All,

Basho is expanding the RICON [0] Conference series this year.

We're beyond excited to officially announce RICON East [1]. It's happening
May 13-14th at New World Stages in New York City. As with last year's event
[2], RICON East will be dedicated to developers building and using
distributed systems. While Riak will be a primary focus, once again we'll
be branching out into other topics concerning the theory, practice and
importance of running distributed systems in production.

RICON East will be two tracks, with three keynotes (opening on both days
and closing on the second day), and some lightning talks. All talks will be
full length; 45 minute slot for talk + Q & A. We're shooting for 350
attendees.

We've already engaged serveral speakers and received commitments. We're
working on announcing speakers and posting talk details as soon as
possible. That said, this year we'll also be opening up a CFP. If you're
interested at speaking at RICON East, please send your proposed talk
details to ri...@basho.com. We're looking for talks about both running Riak
in production as well as distributed systems in general (including, but not
limited to, distributed companies and communities).

Ticket sales begin today: Early Bird pricing is $299 [3].

For those of you who attended RICON2012, we hope to see you again. Those of
you who weren't able to make it, we look forward to seeing you in NYC this
May.

[0] http://ricon.io
[1] http://ricon.io/east.html
[2] http://ricon2012.com
[3] http://ricon-east-2013.eventbrite.com/
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

