---
title: "Re: Riak 2.0 Search Issues"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-03-05T07:16:14-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15835"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15833"
author_name: "Zeeshan Lakhani"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-03-05T07:16:14-08:00
---


Hey Steve,

We’re currently tracking this issue, 
https://github.com/basho/yokozuna/issues/442 
, and are working on testing out 
a patch internally. I will update you as soon as we get clarity there.

As a possible workaround, I would attempt to delete the `core.properties` file 
located in the search root\_directory/index of each node 
(./data/yz/<>). This file should then be recreated on the next 
attempt to creating the core on the Solr side, 
https://github.com/basho/yokozuna/blob/92ca14cc35b46c8e7ac86cad6d92547e68e8d917/src/yz\_index.erl#L171
 
.

If that doesn’t work, you can then delete or `mv` that search-root/index 
directory out of the way, for which it will then get recreated and AAE will 
sync the data.

Thanks.

Zeeshan Lakhani
programmer | 
software engineer at @basho | 
org. member/founder of @papers\_we\_love | paperswelove.org
twitter => @zeeshanlakhani

> On Mar 5, 2015, at 9:02 AM, Steve Garon  wrote:
> 
> In solr.log, the kind of exceptions that I'm getting right now is the 
> following:
> 
> 1. IO Error while trying to get the size of the 
> Directory:java.io.FileNotFoundException: SOME\_RAMDOM\_FILE (.doc, .pos, .fnm, 
> .si, .nv, .gen extensions)
> 2. SolrException.java:120 null:org.apache.sorl.common.SolrException: Core 
> with name 'BUCKET NAME' already exists. 
> 3. SolrException.java:120 null:org.eclipse.jetty.io.EofException
> 4. Server refused connection 
> 5. IOException occured when talking to server
> 
> 
> 
> 
> Steve
> 
> On 5 March 2015 at 08:50, Steve Garon  > wrote:
> Yes I do have yz\_events,handle\_info in crash log. Tons of them actually and 
> they have a big ass strack trace attached to each of them.
> 
> It would be hard for me to provide you with logs. If you have specific 
> questions you want answers to I'd be happy to help though.
> 
> 
> Steve
> 
> On 4 March 2015 at 14:20, Zeeshan Lakhani  > wrote:
> Hey Steve,
> 
> Sorry to see you’re having new issues.
> 
> We’ll have the fix for “space in the key” out soon; it’s currently under 
> review. And, I know that this issue is unrelated.
> 
> I have a few different routes/thoughts for you, but are you seeing anything 
> related to `yz\_events,handle\_info` in your crash logs? Also, can you 
> gist/pastebin me your solr logs? I’d like to seem if it correlates with 
> something we’re currently looking at. 
> 
> Thanks. 
> 
> Zeeshan Lakhani
> programmer | 
> software engineer at @basho | 
> org. member/founder of @papers\_we\_love | paperswelove.org 
> 
> twitter => @zeeshanlakhani
> 
>> On Mar 4, 2015, at 10:39 AM, Steve Garon > > wrote:
>> 
>> Hey all, 
>> 
>> We were having the "space in the key" bug in our cluster so we went through 
>> the whole dataset, backing it up to json file and removing the spaces in the 
>> keys. Then we trashed our whole cluster and restart from scratch reimporting 
>> the whole data. Everything worked like a charm for two weeks but this 
>> weekend, not sure what happened but AAE died again. 
>> 
>> I have two issues now: 
>> 1. AAE is trying to recreate an index that already exists and crashes with 
>> an "Already exists" error ... I get this in my error log every 15 seconds
>> 2. AAE crashes while iterating through entropy data with a request timeout 
>> error every hour followed by tons of failed to index objects with request 
>> timeout as well. Stack trace looks like this:
>> 
>> [error] emulator Error in process <025931.7166> on node 'riak@IP' with exit 
>> value: {function\_clause,[{yz\_entropy,iterate\_entropy\_data,[<<11 
>> bytes>>,[{continuation,<<159 
>> bytes>>},{limit,100},{partition,12}],#Fun> (TRUNCATED)
>> 
>> [error] <0.1371.0>@yz\_kv:index:215 failed to index object 
>> {{<<"TYPE">>,<<"BUCKET">>},<<"KEY">>} with error {"Failed to index 
>> docs",{error,req\_timeout}} because ... (REPEATED MULTIPLE TIME FOR DIFFERENT 
>> KEYS)
>> 
>> I tried clearing the yz anti-entropy tree and reinitialising the 
>> yz\_entropy\_mgr with no luck. Anything I can do to fix this? 
>> 
>> Oh FYI, I cannot insert data with spaces in the key anymore because we are 
>> using a wrapper on top of riak that will prevent us to do so therefore my 
>> issues are not related to this for sure.
>> 
>> These are some config changes that may be good to know for more context.
>> We added this to ibrowse.conf:
>> {dest, "localhost", 8093, 100, 1000, []}.
>> 
>> Jetty is set with minthread 80, acceptors 80, and is using the NIO connector.
>> 
>> All our solr buckets have filterCache disabled with softcommits set to 10s 
>> instead of 1.
>> 
>> Our riak.conf has background\_manager turned on with AAE and handoff using it.
>> 
>> Thanks,
>> 
>> Steve
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com 
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com 
>> 
> 
> 
> 

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

