---
title: "Put failure: too many siblings"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2016-06-03T02:57:15-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg17449"
author_name: "Vladyslav Zakhozhai"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2016-06-03T02:57:15-07:00

---


Hi.

I have a trouble with PUT to Riak CS cluster. During this process I
periodically see the following message in Riak error.log:

2016-06-03 11:15:55.201 [error]
<0.15536.142>@riak\_kv\_vnode:encode\_and\_put:2253 Put failure: too many
siblings for object OBJECT\_NAME (101)

and also

2016-06-03 12:41:50.678 [error]
<0.20448.515>@riak\_api\_pb\_server:handle\_info:331 Unrecognized message
{7345880,{error,{too\_many\_siblings,101}}}

Here OBJECT\_NAME - is the name of object in Riak which has too many
siblings.

I definitely sure that this objects are static. Nobody deletes is, nobody
rewrites it. I have no idea why more than 100 siblings of this object
occurs.

The following effect of this issue occurs:

 1. Great amount of keys are loaded to RAM. I almost out of RAM (Do each
 sibling has it own key or key duplicate?).
 2. Nodes are slow - adding new nodes are too slow
 3. Presence of "too many siblings" affects ownership handoffs

So I have several questions:

 1. Do hinted or ownership handoffs can affect siblings count (I mean can
 siblings be created during ownership of hinted handoffs)
 2. Is there any workaround of this issue. Do I need remove siblings
 manually or it removes during merges, read repairs and so on


My configuration:

 1. riak from basho's packages - 2.1.3-1
 2. riak cs from basho's packages - 2.1.0-1
 3. 24 riak/riak-cs nodes
 4. 32 GB RAM per node
 5. AAE is disabled


I appreciate you help.
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

