---
title: "Re: Is it a good practice to make riak a service and automatically	start when the machine starts?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-08-19T22:54:07-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14756"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14755"
author_name: "Gavin Huang"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-08-19T22:54:07-07:00
---


thanks for the quick reply, it make sense for me.


On Wed, Aug 20, 2014 at 1:07 PM, Jared Morrow  wrote:

> Gavin,
>
> I think if you monitor the crash and reboot and take note or flag if it
> happens often, then that could be when you investigate the node more in
> depth. Having a node go up and down often is a sign clearly of something
> bad happening that should be investigated. For a rare reboot/crash, having
> it start on boot and automatically come up seems like the more ops friendly
> way to treat some event that should be rare. Due to Riak working without
> all its nodes up, we've had people who forgot to start Riak nodes and never
> noticed they were down for weeks. This is good in that Riak can take it,
> but not very awesome when you do bring it up and the node has a lot of
> handoff work to do to catch up.
>
> -Jared
>
>
> On Tue, Aug 19, 2014 at 9:16 PM, Gavin Huang 
> wrote:
>
>> Hi,
>> We have a little uncertainty in our team about whether to have riak
>> automatically start when machine get rebooted.
>> It do bring us some convenient if riak can start by default when
>> machine crashed for some reason, and automatically restart. but i was
>> wondering is there any case that automatically starting a problematic node
>> and join the cluster would cause some problem. do you guys have any idea?
>>
>> Thanks.
>> Gavin
>>
>>
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>
>>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

