---
title: "solr - ignore fields"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-06-24T00:59:27-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14357"
author_name: "Mark Richard Thomas"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-06-24T00:59:27-07:00

---


Hello



1) Is it possible to specify fields to be ignored when a document is

indexed (perhaps via an annotation)?



2) Are all fields added to an index? I could use 'skip' to ensure that a field 
is not indexed but would prefer the field to be igonored?



3) How can I view '\_rs\_schema' via http?



I tried http://localhost:8080/buckets/\_rs\_schema/keys?keys=true, to no avail



 4) What analyzer is used for date fields?



5) What analyzer should be used for decimals (and is there a decimal type)?



Thanks Mark


Equifax Limited is registered in England with Registered No. 2425920. 
Registered Office: Capital House, 25 Chapel Street, London NW1 5DS. Equifax 
Limited is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
Equifax Touchstone Limited is registered in Scotland with Registered No. 
SC113401. Registered Office: 54 Deerdykes View, Westfield Park, Cumbernauld G68 
9HN.
Equifax Commercial Services Limited is registered in the Republic of Ireland 
with Registered No. 215393. Registered Office: IDA Business & Technology Park, 
Rosslare Road, Drinagh, Wexford.

This message contains information from Equifax which may be confidential and 
privileged. If you are not an intended recipient, please refrain from any 
disclosure, copying, distribution or use of this information and note that such 
actions are prohibited. If you have received this transmission in error, please 
notify by e-mail postmas...@equifax.com.
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

