---
title: "RE: Installing a custom hash function"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-04-26T10:01:55-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10985"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg10964"
author_name: "Simon Fell"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-04-26T10:01:55-07:00
---


Thanks, yes, using the console to do something that uses the module let it 
work. Although that's going to be a pain as far as automated deployment goes.

Cheers
Simon
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
From: Olav Frengstad [o...@fwt.no]
Sent: Thursday, April 25, 2013 5:24 AM
To: Simon Fell
Cc: riak-users Users
Subject: Re: Installing a custom hash function

Hey Simon,

The badarg exception means that it can't convert your string to an atom because 
the 'sfdc\_hash' atom is not previously used.
Most likely this is because your .beam file is in the path but not loaded, 
meaning list\_to\_existing\_binary/1 will until you load the file in an 
alternative way.

I'm not sure how the "{add\_paths, \_}" config setting works, but assuming it 
just wraps around the code module you can try to attach to the riak console and 
run "code:ensure\_loaded(sfdc\_hash)." and try to update the bucket props again.


2013/4/24 Simon Fell >
I'm following the instructions at 
http://docs.basho.com/riak/1.2.0/cookbooks/Erlang-Named-Functions/ to setup a 
custom hash function, how safe or not is it to assume its the same process ?

Currently when i try and PUT the bucket config to specify the new function i 
get back

{error,badarg,
 [{erlang,list\_to\_existing\_atom,["sfdc\_hash"],[]},
 {riak\_kv\_wm\_props,erlify\_bucket\_prop,1,
 [{file,"src/riak\_kv\_wm\_props.erl"},{line,304}]},
 {lists,map,2,[{file,"lists.erl"},{line,1173}]},
 {riak\_kv\_wm\_props,accept\_bucket\_body,2,
 [{file,"src/riak\_kv\_wm\_props.erl"},{line,201}]},
 {webmachine\_resource,resource\_call,3,
 [{file,"src/webmachine\_resource.erl"},{line,169}]},
 {webmachine\_resource,do,3,
 [{file,"src/webmachine\_resource.erl"},{line,128}]},
 {webmachine\_decision\_core,resource\_call,1,
 [{file,"src/webmachine\_decision\_core.erl"},{line,48}]},
 {webmachine\_decision\_core,accept\_helper,0,

My .beam file is in /tmp/riak\_fun, and i added {add\_paths, ["/tmp/riak\_fun"]}, 
to the riak\_kv section in the app.config, and the .beam file is world readable.

I'm running this to set the properties
curl -v --data-binary @props.json -H Content-Type:application/json 
http://riak1.local:8098/riak/ex -X PUT

props.json contains
{"props": { "chash\_keyfun":{"mod":"sfdc\_hash","fun":"kv\_hash\_fun"} } }

Is there a more detailed log somewhere? is there an easy way to see if riak can 
actually load my .beam file?

the source for the module is very straighforward (we just want to hash on part 
of the key)

-module(sfdc\_hash).
-export([extract\_id/1, kv\_hash\_fun/1]).

extract\_id(Key) ->
 case binary:match(Key,<<",">>) of
 {Pos, 1} -> binary:part(Key, 0, Pos);
 \_ -> Key
 end.

kv\_hash\_fun({Bucket,Key}) ->
 chash:key\_of({Bucket, extract\_id(Key)}).

This is with riak 1.2.0 on Unbuntu.

Thanks
Simon
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com



--
Med Vennlig Hilsen
Olav Frengstad

Systemutvikler // FWT
+47 920 42 090

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

