---
title: "Questions about the Riak Horizontal Scalability"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-03-07T14:37:32-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13770"
author_name: "yanqun....@mesheven.com"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-03-07T14:37:32-08:00

---


Greetings all... 

I am running tests with Riak Cluster.
When this cluster has only one node, the max throughput is about 1500 ops/s(CPU 
becomes the bottleneck).
But after I added 4 more nodes into the cluster, no matter how I changed the 
configuration file of Basho benchmark tool, 
the number of throughput have never been more than ~3500 ops/s.
CPU utilization on each node is about 60~65% (captured by iostat and sar)

And when I added 5 more nodes(10 nodes totally), it is the same result.
And CPU utilization on each node is about 60%.
I can't understand why.

During the tests, I tried:
1)Change ring size from 64 to 128
2)Change basho benchmark configuration file, like "mode","concurrent" and 
"key\_generator"...
3)Modify some system limits on both riak nodes and basho bench servers, such as 
file descriptor , tcp settings.
4)Monitoring system like cpu, memory and IO, and none of them become the 
bottleneck.
5)Monitoring the basho bench server, low load.

Any ideas?
Or did I make any mistakes in my configuration file?

Configuration file of Basho benchmark tool:
===================================================================
{mode, max}.
{duration, 15}.
{concurrent, 500}.
{driver, basho\_bench\_driver\_http\_raw}.
{http\_raw\_ips, 
["10.11.20.46","10.11.20.47","10.11.20.48","10.11.20.49","10.11.20.50","10.11.20.51","10.11.20.52","10.11.20.53"]}.
{http\_raw\_port, 8098}.
{http\_raw\_path, "/riak/test"}.
{key\_generator, {partitioned\_sequential\_int, 
1000000000000000,8000000000000000}}. %%we want 16 bytes long key-length 
{value\_generator, {fixed\_bin, 1024}}. %%1KB
{operations, [{insert,4}, {get,6}]}.
===============================================================================

Here are our server specifications(VMs based on Xenserver):
1)Riak nodes: 2cores + 4GB RAM + 20GB disk
2)Basho benchmark, 4 cores + 4GB RAM, 30GB disk.

Thank you very much !\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

