---
title: "Re: LMDB Backend for Riak"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-05-03T11:45:14-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11014"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg10999"
author_name: "Kresten Krab Thorup"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-05-03T11:45:14-07:00
---


I tried lmdb in an iOS project recently and while it is indeed fast i also did 
run into several issues. I needed something seriously faster than SQLite and 
after some experimentation ended up embedding leveldb in stead.

1. When storing objects larger than the page size (default is 4k) then those 
pages are not taken from the free list (since they need to be consecutive) but 
always adds to the file size. This means you can easily run out of space.

2. The fact that it can only have one write transaction open means that you 
have to be very careful in not causing serious lock congestion.

So in my experience it only makes sense to use in a read-heavy application with 
mostly small values.

Kresten

Sent from my iPhone

On 01/05/2013, at 19.06, "Brian Hong" 
> wrote:

OpenLDAP Lightning Memory-Mapped Database seems to be getting traction for it's 
high performance and similar query (iteration) functionality with leveldb:
http://symas.com/mdb/

There seems to be an experimental backend for Riak:

https://github.com/alepharchives/emdb

Does anybody know of it's usefulness? Is there any benchmarks on it?

I've heard that leveldb suffers write performance issues:
https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=5621884

Any chances of Basho guys supporting lmdb as an leveldb alternative to Riak? It 
would be awesome! :D

--
Brian(Sung-jin) Hong
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

