---
title: "Re: Questions about the Riak Horizontal Scalability"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-03-07T15:07:51-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13773"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13772"
author_name: "Christian Dahlqvist"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-03-07T15:07:51-08:00
---


As the Protocol Buffer interface generally is faster and more efficient
than the HTTP interface, I would also recommend using the
basho\_bench\_driver\_riakc\_pb driver instead of basho\_bench\_driver\_http\_raw
for your benchmarks.

Best regards,

Christian


On Fri, Mar 7, 2014 at 10:54 PM, Sean Cribbs  wrote:

> Note as well that the 'concurrent' setting will \*not\* typically increase
> throughput beyond a certain point (instead you will simply have many
> workers waiting in the run queue). You are also only driving load from a
> single machine with limits on its CPU and network throughput. Start by
> trying a more reasonable concurrency level, like two (2) times the number
> of CPU cores in the basho\_bench machine. Also consider running basho\_bench
> from multiple machines at once. Consider the line rate of your network as
> well; in the past I have easily been able to saturate a gigabit network
> with basho\_bench.
>
>
> On Fri, Mar 7, 2014 at 4:45 PM, Alexander Sicular wrote:
>
>> How many physical machines (disks/cores/nics) are in your cluster?
>>
>> -Alexander
>>
>> @siculars
>> http://siculars.posthaven.com
>>
>> Sent from my iRotaryPhone
>>
>> On Mar 6, 2014, at 22:07, "yanqun....@mesheven.com" <
>> yanqun....@mesheven.com> wrote:
>>
>> Greetings all...
>>
>> I am running tests with Riak Cluster.
>> When this cluster has only one node, the max throughput is about 1500
>> ops/s(CPU becomes the bottleneck).
>> But after I added 4 more nodes into the cluster, no matter how I changed
>> the configuration file of Basho benchmark tool,
>> the number of throughput have never been more than ~3500 ops/s.
>> CPU utilization on each node is about 60~65% (captured by iostat and sar)
>>
>> And when I added 5 more nodes(10 nodes totally), it is the same result.
>> And CPU utilization on each node is about 60%.
>> I can't understand why.
>>
>> During the tests, I tried:
>> 1)Change ring size from 64 to 128
>> 2)Change basho benchmark configuration file, like "mode","concurrent" and
>> "key\_generator"...
>> 3)Modify some system limits on both riak nodes and basho bench servers,
>> such as file descriptor , tcp settings.
>> 4)Monitoring system like cpu, memory and IO, and none of them become
>> the bottleneck.
>> 5)Monitoring the basho bench server, low load.
>>
>> Any ideas?
>> Or did I make any mistakes in my configuration file?
>>
>> Configuration file of Basho benchmark tool:
>> ===================================================================
>> {mode, max}.
>> {duration, 15}.
>> {concurrent, 500}.
>> {driver, basho\_bench\_driver\_http\_raw}.
>> {http\_raw\_ips,
>> ["10.11.20.46","10.11.20.47","10.11.20.48","10.11.20.49","10.11.20.50","10.11.20.51","10.11.20.52","10.11.20.53"]}.
>> {http\_raw\_port, 8098}.
>> {http\_raw\_path, "/riak/test"}.
>> {key\_generator, {partitioned\_sequential\_int,
>> 1000000000000000,8000000000000000}}. %%we want 16 bytes long key-length
>> {value\_generator, {fixed\_bin, 1024}}. %%1KB
>> {operations, [{insert,4}, {get,6}]}.
>>
>> ===============================================================================
>>
>> Here are our server specifications(VMs based on Xenserver):
>> 1)Riak nodes: 2cores + 4GB RAM + 20GB disk
>> 2)Basho benchmark, 4 cores + 4GB RAM, 30GB disk.
>>
>> Thank you very much !
>>
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>
>>
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>
>>
>
>
> --
> Sean Cribbs 
> Software Engineer
> Basho Technologies, Inc.
> http://basho.com/
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

