---
title: "Re: Increase number of partitions above 1024"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2016-02-22T08:19:17-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg17053"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg17051"
author_name: "Chathuri Gunawardhana"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2016-02-22T08:19:17-08:00
---


I'm using riak master version on riak github (riak\_kv\_version :
<<"2.1.1-38-ga8bc9e0">>)
. I don't use coverage queries.

When I try to set the partition count over 1024, it suggest me to do it via
advanced config (in cuttlefish schema for riak core, there is a validation
to see whether it is above 1024 and if so they give this suggestion). But I
don't know how I can add this parameter to advanced.config.

Thank you very much!

On Mon, Feb 22, 2016 at 5:05 PM, Alex Moore  wrote:

> Ok, what does `riak-admin status | grep riak\_kv\_version` return? The
> config files are different for Riak 1.x and 2.x.
>
> Also for your tests, are you using any "coverage query" features like
> MapReduce or 2i queries?
>
> Thanks,
> Alex
>
>
>
>
> On Mon, Feb 22, 2016 at 10:43 AM, Chathuri Gunawardhana <
> lanch.gunawardh...@gmail.com> wrote:
>
>> For my experiment I will be using 100 nodes.
>>
>> Thank you!
>>
>> On Mon, Feb 22, 2016 at 4:40 PM, Alex Moore  wrote:
>>
>>> Hi Chathuri,
>>>
>>> Larger ring sizes are not usually recommended, you can overload disk I/O
>>> if the number of vnodes to nodes is too high.
>>> Similarly you can underload other system resources if the vnode/node
>>> ratio is too low.
>>>
>>> How many nodes are you planning on running?
>>>
>>> Thanks,
>>> Alex
>>>
>>> On Mon, Feb 22, 2016 at 5:42 AM, Chathuri Gunawardhana <
>>> lanch.gunawardh...@gmail.com> wrote:
>>>
>>>> Hi,
>>>>
>>>> It is not possible to increase the number of partitions above 1024 and
>>>> has been disabled via cuttlefish in riak.config. When I try to increase
>>>> ring\_size via riak.config, the error suggest that I should configure
>>>> partition size>1024 via advanced config file. But I couldn't find a way of
>>>> how I can specify this in advanced.config file. Can you please suggest me
>>>> how I can do this?
>>>>
>>>> Thank you very much!
>>>>
>>>> --
>>>> Chathuri Gunawardhana
>>>>
>>>>
>>>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>>>> riak-users mailing list
>>>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>>>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>>>
>>>>
>>>
>>
>>
>> --
>> Chathuri Gunawardhana
>>
>>
>


-- 
Chathuri Gunawardhana
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

