---
title: "Re: Riak Search and Sorting"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-07-18T07:13:32-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11589"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg11588"
author_name: "Jeremiah Peschka"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-07-18T07:13:32-07:00
---


I just confirmed that today I'm getting the correct sorting in the browser
but not in CorrugatedIron. I'm about to start in on a day of working with a
client. Will verify this afternoon.

---
Jeremiah Peschka - Founder, Brent Ozar Unlimited
MCITP: SQL Server 2008, MVP
Cloudera Certified Developer for Apache Hadoop


On Thu, Jul 18, 2013 at 6:55 AM, Ryan Zezeski  wrote:

> Jeremiah,
>
> After a quick glance I don't see anything obvious in the code. I notice
> you have a presort defined. By any chance, if you remove the presort, do
> you get a correct sorting on the creation\_dt field?
>
> -Z
>
>
> On Wed, Jul 17, 2013 at 5:30 PM, Jeremiah Peschka <
> jeremiah.pesc...@gmail.com> wrote:
>
>> I'm attempting to sort data with Riak Search and have run into a distinct
>> lack of sorting.
>>
>> When using curl (The Fullest Featurest Riak Client EVAR™), I query the
>> following URL:
>> http://localhost:10038/solr/posts/select?q=title\_txt:google&presort=key&sort=creation\_dt&rows=500
>>
>> Being aware that results are sorted AFTER filtering on the server side, I
>> adjusted my query to accept too many rows: there are 335 rows that meet my
>> query criteria. However, Riak Search returns 10 sorted by some random
>> criteria that I'm not aware of (it's not score, that's for sure).
>>
>> Is this behavior expected? Is there something that I've missed in my
>> query?
>>
>> ---
>> Jeremiah Peschka - Founder, Brent Ozar Unlimited
>> MCITP: SQL Server 2008, MVP
>> Cloudera Certified Developer for Apache Hadoop
>>
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>
>>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

