---
title: "Re: Question on "link walking: Deprecation Notice""
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-05-13T05:28:38-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14213"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14212"
author_name: "Alexander Grytsenko"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-05-13T05:28:38-07:00
---


BTW - i'm using python riak-python-client (v2.0.3) and it allows you to use
link walking and chaining but returns back a bucket/key/tag tuple that
allows to fetch a needed object via the secondary request.

Will this also be deprecated?



On Tue, May 13, 2014 at 3:19 PM, Alexander Grytsenko <
alexander.grytse...@dev-pro.net> wrote:

>
> Hi all,
>
> I'm a bit confused of this deprecation notice that is on the official
> docs.basho page that is related to a link walking explanation. See here:
> http://docs.basho.com/riak/2.0.0beta1/dev/using/link-walking/
>
> Basically, It says that starting from v2.0 the Link Walking feature is
> marked as deprecated and it is going to be removed.
>
>
> As I understand link walking allows you to "fetch a related object" by an
> url like:
>
>
> curl -v http://127.0.0.1:8091/riak/people/timoreilly/people,friend,1
> >...
>
> < {'name': 'dave'} # another object with a key=dave who appears to be a 
> friend of tim
>
> Clearly this functionality will be removed.
>
> But does it mean the 'Links' (as key's metadata) will also be deprecated
> and removed?
> Or will I be able to store the Links into object's medatada in v2.0 or 3.0
> or whatever..?
> Or is it going to be possible to travel over links via map/reduce in the
> future versions?
>
> Should I think now about storing additional info somewhere inside my
> object to keep simple relations in the future?
> (and convert all my current links to object's inner data)
>
> Or the deprecation warning above is related only to "Link Walking" (on the
> server side with getting the object back), but not to the "Links" itself?
>
>
> Thanks for keeping this thread,
> alex
>
>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

