---
title: "RE: Installing riak-control"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-03-12T22:07:18-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10400"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg10397"
author_name: "Kevin Burton"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-03-12T22:07:18-07:00
---


Thank you. I now have the control "working". The 'https' is crossed out in red 
I am assuming that that is because of the self-signing that is mentioned online.

I notice that Objects, Map/Reduce, Graphs, Logs, and Support are greyed out. Is 
there another path to this information or are they just a work-in-progress?

-----Original Message-----
From: Christopher Meiklejohn [mailto:cmeiklej...@basho.com] 
Sent: Tuesday, March 12, 2013 10:14 PM
To: Kevin Burton
Cc: riak-users@lists.basho.com
Subject: Re: Installing riak-control

Hi Kevin, 

If you've followed the instructions linked from the Riak Control README on 
GitHub, you should be able to just specify the path to the files you've built, 
the extension doesn't matter as long as the files are armored ASCII.

{certfile, "/path/to/crt/file"}, 
{keyfile, "/path/to/key/file"}


Let me know if that doesn't work for you.

- Chris 

-- 
Christopher Meiklejohn
Software Engineer
Basho Technologies, Inc.



On Tuesday, March 12, 2013 at 11:06 PM, Kevin Burton wrote:

> I was following the instructions for setting up riak-control and I was 
> diverted to instructions to create my own certificate. But from what I can 
> tell I need a .pem file and the instruction don’t include an explanation as 
> to where the .pem file(s) come from or how to derive them. Ideas?
> 
> Thank you.
> 
> 
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com





\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

