---
title: "Re: Riak responds with 204 even if returnbody is true"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-01-08T07:19:08-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15452"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15011"
author_name: "Bozhidar Bozhanov"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-01-08T07:19:08-08:00
---


Hi,

Sorry for the slow reply.
We are using the scalapenos client, so we don't explicitly set content
type. I would assume it's application/json, as we store json. But it
doesn't happen every time. I wouldn't say it's the first PUT - it looked
random. I don't have access to the logs right now, but should I see this
behaviour again, I'll let you know.

Best,
Bozhidar

On Sat, Oct 11, 2014 at 2:02 AM, Luke Bakken  wrote:

> Hi Bozhidar,
>
> What is the "Content-Type" of these PUT operations? Is there something
> in common about operations that return 204 when returnbody=true? Data
> size, content type, etc?? Does this only happen on the first PUT or is
> that random as well?
> --
> Luke Bakken
> Engineer / CSE
> lbak...@basho.com
>
>
> On Thu, Oct 2, 2014 at 9:14 AM, Bozhidar Bozhanov
>  wrote:
> > Riak Version: 1.4.8
> > The load tests are general load tests of the application, not particular
> > riak tests (e.g. we are not using basho bench for these)
> >
> > Best,
> > Bozhidar
> >
> > On Thu, Oct 2, 2014 at 6:55 PM, Luke Bakken  wrote:
> >>
> >> Bozhidar,
> >>
> >> Could you provide more information? Riak version, how you're
> >> performing load tests?
> >> --
> >> Luke Bakken
> >> Engineer / CSE
> >> lbak...@basho.com
> >>
> >>
> >> On Wed, Sep 10, 2014 at 12:10 AM, Bozhidar Bozhanov
> >>  wrote:
> >> > Hello,
> >> >
> >> > We are running load tests and Riak is sometimes responding with 204 No
> >> > content when we do a PUT operation, even though we've passed
> >> > returnbody=true
> >> > and the body we put is not empty (this answer implies this is not
> >> > expected)
> >> >
> >> > It happens rarely, so what might be the possible reasons?
> >> >
> >> > Our riak has 9 nodes, w=4, n\_val=5, r=2.
> >> >
> >> >
> >> >
> >> > Best,
> >> >
> >> > Bozhidar
> >> >
> >> >
> >> > \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> >> > riak-users mailing list
> >> > riak-users@lists.basho.com
> >> > http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> >> >
> >
> >
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

