---
title: "Re: How much memory for 20GB of data?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-07-14T16:13:13-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04014"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04013"
author_name: "Maria Neise"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-07-14T16:13:13-07:00
---


Yes, I meant disk space. Sorry -.-

Cheers,
Maria

2011/7/15 Justin Sheehy :
> Do you perhaps mean disk space instead of memory?
>
> If so, and if you have left the N-val at the default of 3, then you
> will need at least 60G of space before any other overhead is accounted
> for.
>
> -Justin
>
>
>
> On Thu, Jul 14, 2011 at 7:04 PM, Maria Neise
>  wrote:
>> Hey,
>> thank you a lot for your hints.
>> I have 20000000 records à 1KB. The key is a string like
>> "user123456789". I am using the default backend bitcask. There is just
>> one machine in the cluster and I didn't change the N-val. I already
>> tried to insert the 20GB of data, but 40GB of memory were obviously
>> not enough, because only 7000000 records were inserted. So I thought
>> mybe 150GB should be enough?
>>
>> Cheers,
>> Maria
>>
>> 2011/7/15 Justin Sheehy :
>>> Hi, Maria.
>>>
>>> In addition to what others have said, I would note that (at least) the
>>> following issues matter quite a bit for such planning:
>>>
>>> - how many items the data is broken up into
>>> - how large the keys will be (especially if they are very large due to
>>> embedded structure)
>>> - what storage engine ("backend") is in use
>>> - how many machines are in the cluster
>>> - the N-val, or how many replicas are being stored (default is 3)
>>>
>>> If you know those things, then you can make a more meaningful estimation.
>>>
>>> I hope that this helps.
>>>
>>> -Justin
>>>
>>>
>>>
>>>
>>> On Thu, Jul 14, 2011 at 6:02 PM, Maria Neise
>>>  wrote:
>>>> Hey,
>>>> I would like to store 20GB of data with Riak. Does anyone know how
>>>> much memory Riak would need for that?
>>>>
>>>> Cheers,
>>>> Maria
>>>>
>>>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>>>> riak-users mailing list
>>>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>>>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>>>
>>>
>>
>

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

