---
title: "Re: riak kv search and analyzers"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-11-11T00:41:00-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg09284"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg09282"
author_name: "Mridul Kashatria"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-11-11T00:41:00-08:00
---


Hi Tom,

I saw that documentation but it is not clear how to define that schema on 
auto-indexed key value search.

The commands given are below
# Set an index schema.
bin/search-cmd set-schema Index SchemaFile

# View the schema for an Index.
bin/search-cmd show-schema Index

I don't know what is "Index" in this context, is it the bucket name?

I did "search-cmd install " to add a pre commit hook to that 
bucket. 

Thanks

--
Mridul 


On 11-Nov-2012, at 1:20 AM, Thomas Santero wrote:

> Hi Mridul,
> 
> The standard analyzer will automatically convert all letters to lowercase, so 
> all you need to do is create a custom schema for your JSON field names using 
> {analyzer\_factory, {erlang, text\_analyzers, standard\_analyzer\_factory}} and 
> set the schema as it described in the documentation[0].
> 
> [0] 
> http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/cookbooks/Riak-Search---Schema/#Defining-a 
> Schema
> 
> Tom
> 
> On Sat, Nov 10, 2012 at 2:39 PM, Mridul Kashatria  
> wrote:
> Hi,
> 
> I was trying Riak's auto-indexed search on a bucket using the standard pre 
> commit hook. The JSON objects that I save have title and description fields 
> which need to be treated as full text search.
> 
> Problem is that I could not find how to do case insensitive full text search 
> on the bucket. In the document at 
> http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/cookbooks/Riak-Search---Schema/ I can see 
> that "standard analyzer" is what is required for full text search. How can I 
> set this analyzer in the Riak key value search?
> 
> Regards
> 
> --
> 
> Mridul
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> 
> 

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

