---
title: "Re: Riak for eCommerce"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-01-20T18:03:27-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06347"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06335"
author_name: "Zheng Zhibin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-01-20T18:03:27-08:00
---




Best regards,
Zheng Zhibin

在 2012-1-21，上午1:01，Dmitry Demeshchuk  写道：

> Generally, using eventually consistent databases for e-commerce sounds
> too risky.
> 
> But I know that there was some e-commerce stealth startup using Riak
> for their needs (probably not for all the data though, I don't know
> any details). Amazon uses Dynamo, which is quite similar to Riak. So
> NoSQL can be used in this niche somehow.
> 
> Also, intuitively, most of the consistency problems might be avoided
> by setting all w/dw values to maximum (better set r to maximum too, of
> course).
> 
> The hardest task I see here is to organize transactions for the cases
> like "we remove a product from database and we should alter all the
> orders that contain this product".
There is a lib which can help for this in some extent. github.com/mochi/statebox

There is a Riak version as well: github.com/mochi/statebox\_riak

Write for free, ops in read.
> 
> On Fri, Jan 20, 2012 at 5:43 PM, Ahmed Al-Saadi  
> wrote:
>> Hello:
>> 
>> After reviewing a few options in the NoSQL space, I am considering using
>> Riak for an e-commerce platform. I gather that atomicity (transactions) is
>> not supported while durability can be enforced per request (using dw=1 or,
>> at least, w=?). In other words, for most non-critical
>> reads/writes, r/w can be optimized for availability while critical writes
>> must be committed to disk (or to "enough" nodes?), sacrificing availability
>> in the process.
>> 
>> Does this describe the state-of-affairs or am I missing something?
>> 
>> --
>> Ahmed Al-Saadi
>> Sent with Sparrow
>> 
>> 
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>> 
> 
> 
> 
> -- 
> Best regards,
> Dmitry Demeshchuk
> 
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

