---
title: "Re: Riak search installation failure."
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-09-09T07:28:50-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04636"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04633"
author_name: "Jeremiah Peschka"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-09-09T07:28:50-07:00
---


When you stay "install and start riak successfully" what exactly do you mean? 
If you're able to download a pre-compiled package of Riak and install it, 
that's logical since it's already been compiled for your platform. Which, in 
turn, makes sense as to why you can't compile something.

On the Linux side of things: Good luck to you, sir. I suspect there's some sort 
of development tools package that you can install that will get your system up 
and running.

---
Jeremiah Peschka - Founder, Brent Ozar PLF, LLC
Microsoft SQL Server MVP

On Sep 8, 2011, at 10:02 PM, vijayakumar wrote:

> Hi Jermiah,
> Linux version 2.6.18-128.el5 (mockbu...@builder10.centos.org) (gcc 
> version 4.1.2 20080704 (Red Hat 4.1.2-44)) is the unix version. I am able 
> to install and start riak successfully however riak-search make fails.
> 
> Regards,
> Vijayakumar.
> 
> On Thu, Sep 8, 2011 at 7:13 PM, Jeremiah Peschka  
> wrote:
> After some quick googlin', this is a sign that you don't have a full 
> development environment installed. You need more things than a compiler to 
> build software - linkers and libraries and other assorted pieces of code.
> 
> I have no idea how to help you on whichever \*nix you're using, though.
> ---
> Jeremiah Peschka - Founder, Brent Ozar PLF, LLC
> Microsoft SQL Server MVP
> 
> On Sep 8, 2011, at 12:44 AM, vijayakumar wrote:
> 
> > I tried to install riak-search as explained in
> > http://wiki.basho.com/Riak-Search---Installation---RHEL-and-CentOS.html,
> > but I ended with up the following error in "make rel" stage.
> >
> > loading cache ./config.cache
> > checking host system type... x86\_64-unknown-linux-gnu
> > checking target system type... x86\_64-unknown-linux-gnu
> > checking build system type... x86\_64-unknown-linux-gnu
> > checking for whoami... /usr/bin/whoami
> > checking for gcc... cc
> > checking whether the C compiler (cc ) works... no
> > configure: error: installation or configuration problem: C compiler cannot 
> > create executables.
> > make[1]: \*\*\* 
> > [/localdata/riak/install/riak\_search-0.14.2/deps/erlang\_js/c\_src/system/lib/libnspr4.a]
> > Error 1
> > make[1]: Leaving directory 
> > `/localdata/riak/install/riak\_search-0.14.2/deps/erlang\_js/c\_src'
> > ERROR: make -C c\_src failed with error: 2
> > make: \*\*\* [compile] Error 1
> >
> > Kindly help me out in resolving this issue.
> >
> > Thanks,
> > Vijayakumar.
> > \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> > riak-users mailing list
> > riak-users@lists.basho.com
> > http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> 
> 


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

