---
title: "Re: Apt/PPA repository?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-07-07T11:00:55-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03957"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg03951"
author_name: "Jared Morrow"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-07-07T11:00:55-07:00
---


Jonathan,

Thanks for the suggestion, this is on our long list of improvements we have
for our release process. I do not know yet where it will fall in our
schedule, so if it something extremely pressing for you we always accept
community involvement in the form of repository maintainers! As an
example, the availability of riak in the homebrew project for OSX is
completely community supported. If you or anyone else is interested in
taking that on, I'd most certainly help from our end in getting it
integrated into our build system. If not, I do hope to get to it by our
next major release or shortly thereafter.

-Jared


On Wed, Jul 6, 2011 at 11:33 PM, Jonathan Langevin <
jlange...@loomlearning.com> wrote:

> Any update on the possibility of getting an APT/PPA repository for Debian
> users?
> A ppa repo hosted on Launchpad would be keen :-)
>
> I'm sure the RHEL guys would like a YUM repo as well.
>
> Repository support is a must, as it can improve the chances of getting
> non-Riak users to try it out (copy/pasting a .deb URL is so 2005, hehe), and
> will allow us to upgrade Riak along with the rest of the server instead of
> having to monitor Riak releases separately.
>
> Thanks!
> \*
>
> 
> Jonathan Langevin
> Systems Administrator
> Loom Inc.
> Wilmington, NC: (910) 241-0433 - jlange...@loomlearning.com -
> www.loomlearning.com - Skype: intel352
> \*
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

