---
title: "Re: Do not expose Riak to the Internet"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-10-19T16:36:56-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05197"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg05196"
author_name: "Nate Lawson"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-10-19T16:36:56-07:00
---


The fact that it allows any client to execute arbitrary code as the database 
user, on the database server? You can call 'os:cmd' to shell out from a M-R 
job. You can't do that directly in MySQL.

I think this requirement should be extended to: "Don't allow clients to connect 
who aren't equivalent to the database UID on the server". If you have a Rails 
front-end and a Riak back-end, you can't let them talk without some application 
proxy between, filtering out all but the simplest queries (no M-R).

We have our front-end servers talking to a simple scheduling back-end over a 
single port, and all other ports are blocked. That scheduler can talk to Riak, 
but the front-end can't directly.

-Nate

On Oct 19, 2011, at 4:18 PM, Paul Fisher wrote:

> Generally I would never put any database open on the Internet... Is there 
> something special about Riak that would cause people to change this rule of 
> thumb?
> 
> --
> paul
> 
> On Oct 19, 2011, at 4:50 PM, "Aphyr"  wrote:
> 
>> With Eric Redmond's permission\*, I am releasing a proof-of-concept 
>> exploit which uses Riak's mapreduce API to execute arbitrary Erlang code 
>> and obtain shell access.
>> 
>> http://aphyr.com/journals/show/do-not-expose-riak-directly-to-the-internet
>> 
>> Please stop doing this.
>> 
>> --Kyle
>> 
>> \* Eric (http://crudcomic.com/post/11656603627/downside-of-crowdsourcing) 
>> announced a publicly accessible Riak cluster today; with his 
>> permission/supervision I used this exploit to gain shell access to his 
>> server. He's taken down that cluster and encouraged me to release this 
>> information.
>> 
>> I love the idea of a public sandbox for Riak--but it should be wrapped 
>> in a rate-limiting HTTP proxy that only allows certain URLs, object 
>> sizes, and methods. And limits the number of keys. :)


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

