---
title: "Re: migrate from bitcask to eleveldb with out losing data from bitcask"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-09-28T04:38:22-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08740"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg08739"
author_name: "Nico Meyer"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-09-28T04:38:22-07:00
---



Hi Kresten,

after the first node has been removed, you have a cluster and an extra 
machine, haven't you ;-).


Lets take you example of 5 nodes.
So instead of having to do 5 node leaves and 5 joins, you can do 1 node 
leave, 4 replaces and 1 join.


Cheers,
Nico

Am 28.09.2012 13:26, schrieb Kresten Krab Thorup:

If your cluster is large enough to guarantee your N value (e.g. N=3 requires 5 
nodes) then you can just remove one node at a time from the cluster (riak admin 
leave), re-install the node with the new backend options, and re-join the 
cluster. In between these updates you then need to wait for all transfers to 
finish.

Alternatively, if you have an extra machine to spare, you can use "riak-admin 
cluster replace" to transfer data from an existing node to a new node. When that 
command completes (some time after commit) all data is transferred and the original node 
has left the cluster. This options would be much faster because you avoid the extra 
transfers and partition reshuffling, but needs an extra machine.

Kresten
Trifork


On Sep 28, 2012, at 12:59 PM, Venki Yedidha 
> wrote:

Hi All,
 How to migrate from bitcask to eleveldb with out losing data from bitcask?

Thanks,
Venkatesh
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com



Mobile: + 45 2343 4626 | Skype: krestenkrabthorup | Twitter: @drkrab
Trifork A/S | Margrethepladsen 4 | DK- 8000 Aarhus C | Phone : +45 8732 8787 | 
www.trifork.com





\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com



--
Senior Backend Developer
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

ADITION technologies AG

Schwarzwaldstrasse 78b
79117 Freiburg

http://www.adition.com

T +49 / (0)761 / 88147 - 30

F +49 / (0)761 / 88147 - 77
SUPPORT +49 / (0)1805 - ADITION

(Festnetzpreis 14 ct/min; Mobilfunkpreise maximal 42 ct/min)

Eingetragen beim Amtsgericht Düsseldorf unter HRB 54076

Vorstände: Andreas Kleiser, Jörg Klekamp, Tihomir Perkovic, Marcus Schlüter
Aufsichtsratsvorsitzender: Rechtsanwalt Daniel Raimer
UStIDNr.: DE 218 858 434


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

