---
title: "Re: Store whole database in memory"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-05-28T09:56:38-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03473"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg03470"
author_name: "Michael McClain"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-05-28T09:56:38-07:00
---


Thank you.

That's what I'm looking for.
I have stopped my 3 nodes (the ones from the Fast Track Tutorial) and set
the storage to \*riak\_kv\_ets\_backend\*.
Then I started the 3 nodes again and tried some bulk insert operations with
the java client (the one optimized for the api buffer).

 I can't see any speed improvement.
 Should I delete the databases in the 3 nodes and start the whole thing from
scratch?

 Do you know the improvement I could get in the number of writes?
 I'm trying to achieve a 100,000 writes per second, where the data being
inserted is just 12 bytes and I do a bulk insert of a thousand keys at a
time (12 bytes).

Thank you,
Michael
2011/5/28 Greg Nelson 

> Michael,
>
> You might want to check out riak\_kv\_ets\_backend, riak\_kv\_gb\_trees\_backend,
> and riak\_kv\_cache\_backend.
>
> http://wiki.basho.com/Configuration-Files.html
>
> -Greg
>
> On Friday, May 27, 2011 at 10:35 PM, Michael McClain wrote:
>
> Hi,
>
> Is it possible to store the whole database in memory?
> In a similar way as Redis does.
>
> I'm really interested in the distributed map reduce done by riak ("bring
> processing to the data, instead of data to processors), but I need faster
> writes/reads that a memory-only database could provide.
> In case you don't support memory-only storage (no disk touched / all keys
> and data fitting the memory in all nodes) yet, do you plan on implementing
> it?
>
> Thank you,
> Michael
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

