---
title: "Re: Riak Client Resources,	Deleting a Key Doesn't Remove it from bucket.keys"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-05-26T10:25:37-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03430"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg03429"
author_name: "Jonathan Langevin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-05-26T10:25:37-07:00
---


Additionally, perhaps the automatically updating cache (regarding
inserts/deletes) could be an optionally enabled behavior?
As there are cases where it could be needlessly expensive (i.e. - high
write/delete scenarios), especially when someone does not use the key
listing feature.
\*


Jonathan Langevin
Systems Administrator
Loom Inc.
Wilmington, NC: (910) 241-0433 - jlange...@loomlearning.com -
www.loomlearning.com - Skype: intel352
\*


On Thu, May 26, 2011 at 1:23 PM, Jonathan Langevin <
jlange...@loomlearning.com> wrote:

> A cache seems legitimate for performance, but perhaps the cache could
> additionally be maintained for inserts/deletes?
> At least then the cache is still being used, but is also accurate.
>
> I don't know how expensive that would be though, but hopefully less
> expensive than a key list reload, correct?
> \*
>
> 
> Jonathan Langevin
> Systems Administrator
> Loom Inc.
> Wilmington, NC: (910) 241-0433 - jlange...@loomlearning.com -
> www.loomlearning.com - Skype: intel352
> \*
>
>
> On Thu, May 26, 2011 at 1:18 PM, Keith Bennett <
> keith.benn...@lmnsolutions.com> wrote:
>
>>
>> On May 26, 2011, at 12:40 PM, Sean Cribbs wrote:
>>
>> With recent commits (
>> https://github.com/seancribbs/ripple/compare/35d7323fb0e179c8c971...da3ab71a19d194c65a7b
>> ),
>> it is cached until you either refresh it manually by passing :reload => true
>> or a block (for streaming key lists). This was the compromise reached in
>> that pull-request.
>>
>> All of this caching discussion glosses over the fact that you \*should
>> not list keys\* in any real application. It really begs the question --
>> how often do you list keys in Redis, or memcached? I suspect that generally
>> you don't. This isn't a relational database. (Also, how often do you
>> actually do a full-table scan in MySQL? You don't if you're sane -- you use
>> an index, or even LIMIT + OFFSET.)
>>
>> I'm tempted to remove Document::all and make Bucket#keys harder to access,
>> but the balance between discouraging bad behavior and exposing available
>> functionality is a hard one to strike. I don't want new developers to
>> immediately use list-keys and then be discouraged from using Riak because
>> it's slow; on the other hand, it \*can be useful\* in some circumstances.
>>
>>
>>
>> In those cases where it's useful, the developer should probably be
>> responsible enough to request the key list only once; the caching behavior
>> simply does this for them. I guess whether it \*should\* do this for them
>> is the issue at hand.
>>
>>
>> YES! Exactly! The decision to expose the functionality has been made;
>> questioning whether or not this should have been done is orthogonal to
>> whether or not the results should be cached, and the two should be
>> considered separately.
>>
>> Regarding the latter, the function name represents an implied promise to
>> the caller; my position is that the function's behavior is a substantial and
>> surprising deviation from that implied promise.
>>
>> Although buckets do not \*contain\* key/values in the riak \*implementation\*,
>> the bucket / key-value containment metaphor pervades the developer
>> interface, evidenced by, for example, the existence of the Riak::Bucket
>> class, and the structure of the URL's with which values are manipulated. In
>> software products that have containment metaphors, how often do we see a
>> function return a cached value rather than the up-to-date value, especially
>> for products that manage shared data?
>>
>> All that said, I'm really torn on this issue, and the same problem applies
>> to full-bucket MapReduce. Caveat emptor.
>>
>>
>> Ok, I'll be quiet now. ;)
>>
>> Thanks,
>> Keith
>>
>>
>> Sean Cribbs 
>> Developer Advocate
>> Basho Technologies, Inc.
>> http://basho.com/
>>
>> On May 26, 2011, at 10:35 AM, Jonathan Langevin wrote:
>>
>> How long is the key list cached like that, naturally?\*
>>
>> 
>> Jonathan Langevin
>> Systems Administrator
>> Loom Inc.
>> Wilmington, NC: (910) 241-0433 - jlange...@loomlearning.com -
>> www.loomlearning.com - Skype: intel352
>> \*
>>
>>
>> On Thu, May 26, 2011 at 10:35 AM, Sean Cribbs  wrote:
>>
>>> Keith,
>>>
>>> There was a pull-request issue out for this on the Github project (
>>> https://github.com/seancribbs/ripple/pull/168). For various reasons, the
>>> list of keys is memoized in the Riak::Bucket instance. Passing :reload =>
>>> true to the #keys method will cause it to refresh. I like to discourage
>>> list-keys, but with the memoized list you don't shoot yourself in the foot
>>> as often.
>>>
>>> Sean Cribbs 
>>> Developer Advocate
>>> Basho Technologies, Inc.
>>> http://basho.com/
>>>
>>> On May 26, 2011, at 10:29 AM, Keith Bennett wrote:
>>>
>>> > All -
>>> >
>>> > I just started working with Riak, and am using the riak-client Ruby
>>> gem.
>>> >
>>> > When I delete a key from a bucket, and try to fetch the value
>>> associated with that key, I get a 404 error (which is reasonable). However,
>>> it remains in the bucket's list of keys (i.e. the value returned by
>>> bucket.keys(). Why is the key still reported to exist in the bucket? Is
>>> bucket.keys cached, and therefore unaware of the deletion? Here's a
>>> riak-client Ruby script and its output in irb that illustrates this:
>>> >
>>> > ree-1.8.7-2010.02 :001 > require 'riak'
>>> > => true
>>> > ree-1.8.7-2010.02 :002 >
>>> > ree-1.8.7-2010.02 :003 > client = Riak::Client.new
>>> > => #
>>> > ree-1.8.7-2010.02 :004 > bucket = client['links']
>>> > => #
>>> > ree-1.8.7-2010.02 :005 > key = bucket.keys.first
>>> > => "4000-17.xml"
>>> > ree-1.8.7-2010.02 :006 > object = bucket[key]
>>> > => #
>>> > ree-1.8.7-2010.02 :007 > object.delete
>>> > => #
>>> > ree-1.8.7-2010.02 :008 > bucket.keys.first
>>> > => "4000-17.xml"
>>> > ree-1.8.7-2010.02 :009 > object = bucket[key]
>>> > Riak::HTTPFailedRequest: Expected [200, 300] from Riak but received
>>> 404. not found
>>> >
>>> > from
>>> /Users/kbennett/.rvm/gems/ree-1.8.7-2010.02/gems/riak-client-0.9.4/lib/riak/client/net\_http\_backend.rb:55:in
>>> `perform'
>>> > from
>>> /Users/kbennett/.rvm/rubies/ree-1.8.7-2010.02/lib/ruby/1.8/net/http.rb:1054:in
>>> `request'
>>> > from
>>> /Users/kbennett/.rvm/rubies/ree-1.8.7-2010.02/lib/ruby/1.8/net/http.rb:2142:in
>>> `reading\_body'
>>> > from
>>> /Users/kbennett/.rvm/rubies/ree-1.8.7-2010.02/lib/ruby/1.8/net/http.rb:1053:in
>>> `request'
>>> > from
>>> /Users/kbennett/.rvm/rubies/ree-1.8.7-2010.02/lib/ruby/1.8/net/http.rb:1037:in
>>> `request'
>>> > from
>>> /Users/kbennett/.rvm/rubies/ree-1.8.7-2010.02/lib/ruby/1.8/net/http.rb:543:in
>>> `start'
>>> > from
>>> /Users/kbennett/.rvm/rubies/ree-1.8.7-2010.02/lib/ruby/1.8/net/http.rb:1035:in
>>> `request'
>>> > from
>>> /Users/kbennett/.rvm/gems/ree-1.8.7-2010.02/gems/riak-client-0.9.4/lib/riak/client/net\_http\_backend.rb:47:in
>>> `perform'
>>> > from
>>> /Users/kbennett/.rvm/gems/ree-1.8.7-2010.02/gems/riak-client-0.9.4/lib/riak/client/net\_http\_backend.rb:46:in
>>> `tap'
>>> > from
>>> /Users/kbennett/.rvm/gems/ree-1.8.7-2010.02/gems/riak-client-0.9.4/lib/riak/client/net\_http\_backend.rb:46:in
>>> `perform'
>>> > from
>>> /Users/kbennett/.rvm/gems/ree-1.8.7-2010.02/gems/riak-client-0.9.4/lib/riak/client/http\_backend/transport\_methods.rb:59:in
>>> `get'
>>> > from
>>> /Users/kbennett/.rvm/gems/ree-1.8.7-2010.02/gems/riak-client-0.9.4/lib/riak/client/http\_backend.rb:72:in
>>> `fetch\_object'
>>> > from
>>> /Users/kbennett/.rvm/gems/ree-1.8.7-2010.02/gems/riak-client-0.9.4/lib/riak/bucket.rb:101:in
>>> `[]'
>>> > from riak-delete-failure.rb:9
>>> >
>>> > Thanks,
>>> > Keith
>>> >
>>> >
>>> >
>>> > \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>>> > riak-users mailing list
>>> > riak-users@lists.basho.com
>>> > http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>>
>>>
>>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>>> riak-users mailing list
>>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>>
>>
>>
>>
>>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

