---
title: "Riak Recap for 4/26 - 4/27"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-04-28T06:38:52-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00193"
author_name: "Mark Phillips"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-04-28T06:38:52-07:00
---


Hey All -

A few great questions that were discussed in #Riak and some reminders
for today's recap.

Enjoy -

Mark


-----
Mark Phillips
Community Manager
wiki.basho.com
twitter.com/pharkmillups


\_\_\_\_\_\_


1) We tagged 0.10.1 on 4/26 to clean up a few small bugs. You can grab
it here it if you haven't already done so:

http://downloads.basho.com/riak/riak-0.10/

--> it also looks like @roder stepped up to get the homebrew recipe up
to date. Thanks, Matt!


2) Q --- How well suited is Riak to handling larger objects like
assets (images, PDF's, video clips, etc)? (from pdlug via IRC)

 A --- 
http://wiki.basho.com/display/RIAK/FAQ#FAQ-HowlargeofafilecanonestoreinRiak%3FAnyguidelinesorrecommendations%3F


3) Q --- How would i go at migrating from a single-node to a cluster
(cluster which does not include the previous single node) ? letting
the members of the cluster join, give them time to balance, and then
taking out the original single-node would suffice? ( from nopmop via
IRC)

 A --- The process here is pretty much as straightforward as its
seems: when you add nodes to the cluster, your data from the be
distributed around the ring. When this process is complete, use the
"riak-admin leave" command to remove the unwanted node from the
cluster. That data will then be redistributed around the ring.


 4) Q --- Is there a best practice for exiting pb client processes
when I'm done with them? Does that have to be done explicitly? (from
howboutjoe via IRC)

 A --- This doesn't have to be done explicitly. It will stop when
the socket is closed.


5) Reminder - Go see Dan Reverri talk about Appush (appush.com) at
the San Francisco NoSQL meetup tonight.

 http://www.meetup.com/SFNoSQL/calendar/13096494/?from=list&offset=0

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

