---
title: "Re: Docs on Rspec & Ripple"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-02-12T20:23:33-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg02304"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg02302"
author_name: "Sean Cribbs"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-02-12T20:23:33-08:00
---


The generators are there to help (assuming you have Ripple in your bundle):

Ripple:
 ripple
 ripple:configuration
 ripple:js
 ripple:model
 ripple:test

The root "ripple" generator will generate configuration, js, and test. 

The "configuration" generator adds a config/ripple.yml that you use normally to 
set up your dev and prod environments, and a hint on how to set up the test 
env. The test server also gets its configuration from the file. The only thing 
you really need to set is "bin\_dir", which gives the directory where the "riak" 
start script lives (depends on how you installed Riak, obviously).

The "test" generator will add the file spec/support/ripple.rb which wraps the 
test-server up for you in a friendly package. It also inserts an "after :each" 
block to your spec\_helper.rb that wires up clearing the data for you. The test 
server is completely independent of any stubbing or additional testing 
frameworks you use and so it should still work for your specs. Think of it 
like having a separate test database, with a big rolled-back transaction at the 
end of each example.

Sean Cribbs 
Developer Advocate
Basho Technologies, Inc.
http://basho.com/

On Feb 12, 2011, at 11:02 PM, Mat Ellis wrote:

> Is there a tutorial or a walk-through available for testing with Rspec & 
> Ripple? Currently ploughing our way through 
> https://github.com/seancribbs/ripple/tree/41a7f741603ea186d97064ff3ef542238a078135/ripple/spec
> attempting to make the in memory test server work. And of course, our Rspec 
> setup is a little different (mocha stubbing, shoulda, etc.) We'll probably 
> get there eventually any docs or cribsheets would be helpful.
> 
> TIA M.
> 
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

