---
title: "Re: Trying to revamp the clj-riak driver"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-12-18T15:04:19-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg09624"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg09625"
author_name: "bgp2396"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-12-18T15:04:19-08:00
---


That works, thanks so much for the help! :)

--- On Tue, 12/18/12, Reid Draper  wrote:

> From: Reid Draper 
> Subject: Re: Trying to revamp the clj-riak driver
> To: "bgp2396" 
> Cc: riak-users@lists.basho.com
> Date: Tuesday, December 18, 2012, 5:21 PM
> 
> On Dec 18, 2012, at 4:05 PM, bgp2396 
> wrote:
> 
> > Thanks! I did check out both of those, but as far as I
> could tell neither one supported conflict resolution, or at
> least it's not documented. If it is supported, do you think
> you could give an example of how to do it with sumo? I tried
> passing in the :vector-clock with in the map you pass into
> put, but that didn't yield any results.
> 
> Yeah sumo documentation could use some work :). You were
> right to use :vector-clock, and turns out it doesn't work
> because of a bug. The good news is I just fixed it [1] and
> pushed up a new release, 0.2.0. Readme is now updated and
> the release should be on Clojars already [2].
> 
> The rest of this explanation assumes you have {allow\_mult,
> true} set as a bucket property. You can find a description
> of how to change that here [3]
> 
> The basic workflow with sumo (and likely any other Riak
> client) should be:
> 
> 1. GET values, which in sumo will return a seq of 0 or more
> results (0 corresponds with not found, more than one means a
> conflict)
> 2. If there are more than 1 result, resolve the conflicts
> (I'll expand on this later in the response)
> 3. Update the single, resolved value with whatever you were
> trying to do
> 4. Write back to Riak with the vector clock returned from
> step 1. (sumo will return a seq of riak objects, each of
> which have identical vclocks, so you it doesn't matter which
> one you choose).
> 
> Here's a gist that shows this more explicitly [4].
> 
> Now, how do you actually do the conflict resolution? The
> short story is it's 'app specific', but things like CRDTs
> [5] make it easier. I have a Clojure implementation of some
> basic
> CRDTs, called knockbox [6].
> 
> Hope this helps, and don't hesitate ask more.
> 
> Reid
> 
> [1] 
> https://github.com/reiddraper/sumo/commit/a7f080403622e0afb31a39a2f22984df28bba220
> [2] https://clojars.org/sumo
> [3] http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/references/Configuration-Files/
> [4] https://gist.github.com/4332614
> [5] http://pagesperso-systeme.lip6.fr/Marc.Shapiro/papers/RR-6956.pdf
> [6] https://github.com/reiddraper/knockbox
> 
> 
> > 
> > My use case right now is that I'm writing a little
> proxy server in clojure to interact with riak. The client
> will be getting (possibly multiple) values out of riak, and
> passing in the one that it wants to be correct (possibly
> changing that correct one in some way was well before
> sending it back).
> > 
> > --- On Tue, 12/18/12, Reid Draper 
> wrote:
> > 
> >> From: Reid Draper 
> >> Subject: Re: Trying to revamp the clj-riak driver
> >> To: "bgp2396" 
> >> Cc: riak-users@lists.basho.com
> >> Date: Tuesday, December 18, 2012, 3:44 PM
> >> For a more up-to-date Clojure client,
> >> I'd recommend looking at Welle [1] or Sumo [2]. Not
> to
> >> discourage you from doing some hacking, just
> throwing some
> >> other options out there.
> >> 
> >> [1] http://clojureriak.info/
> >> [2] https://github.com/reiddraper/sumo
> >> 
> >> Reid
> >> 
> >> On Dec 18, 2012, at 3:12 PM, bgp2396 
> >> wrote:
> >> 
> >>> I'm working on updating this driver to be in
> some kind
> >> of working state:
> >>> https://github.com/mmcgrana/clj-riak
> >>> 
> >>> I've actually made some good progress, you can
> find my
> >> fork of it here:
> >>> https://github.com/mediocregopher/clj-riak
> >>> 
> >>> I've gotten all the dependencies and such
> updated, and
> >> (afaik) all of the old functionality is working
> again
> >> (although I haven't tested mapreduce).
> >>> 
> >>> Right now I'm trying to add in support for
> vclocks and
> >> conflict resolution. As it stands the driver always
> passes
> >> in the vclock as blank. I've switched to using one
> of the
> >> RiakObject constructors which has a vclock passed
> in as
> >> well, but now the code throws a
> >>
> "NullPointerException   clojure.lang.Reflector.invokeNoArgInstanceMember"
> >> when calling buildContent() on it. I wanted to
> check on the
> >> mailing list to see if anyone might know why this
> is before
> >> I started diving into the java code and trying to
> debug that
> >> to figure out where exactly in buildContent() it's
> failing.
> >>> 
> >>> Here's a gist with relevant the relevant code:
> >>> https://gist.github.com/4331526
> >>> 
> >>>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> >>> riak-users mailing list
> >>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> >>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> >> 
> >> 
> 
> 

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

