---
title: "Re: documentation for allow_mult=false"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-11-03T17:57:28-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05440"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg05424"
author_name: "Mark Phillips"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-11-03T17:57:28-07:00
---


On Wed, Nov 2, 2011 at 11:58 AM, Jeremiah Peschka
 wrote:
> Please add this explanation to the wiki. I'd do it, but i'm working with an 
> RDBMS right now and I am neither distributed nor eventually consistent.
> ---

Opened a new issue to make sure this content finds its way there.

https://github.com/basho/riak\_wiki/issues/212

Mark

> Jeremiah Peschka - Founder, Brent Ozar PLF, LLC
> Microsoft SQL Server MVP
>
> On Nov 2, 2011, at 8:18 AM, Ryan Zezeski wrote:
>
>> On Tue, Nov 1, 2011 at 5:51 PM, Justin Karneges  wrote:
>> Are you saying that allow\_mult=false + last\_write\_win=false is the same as
>> allow\_mult=false + last\_write\_win=true ?
>>
>> False/false may be the default behavior, but I want to know what that 
>> behavior
>> is. :)
>>
>>
>> Justin,
>>
>> No, last\_write\_wins=true doesn't care about the value of allow\_mult.  Only 
>> one should be true at the same time, and the default is to have both set to 
>> false.  Perhaps making an imaginary setting to displace these two would 
>> help.  Lets call this imaginary setting "conflict\_resolution\_method" which 
>> can take on the three mutually exclusive values "stomp", "most\_recent" and 
>> "siblings".
>>
>> stomp - overwrite the current value with the new value regardless of vector 
>> clocks, just mutate the value with no regard, thus "stomp"
>>
>> most\_recent - use vclocks to monitor for conflicts, create siblings, and 
>> pick the most recent write when a conflict does occur (i.e. let Riak handle 
>> the conflict for you based on time)
>>
>> siblings - use vclocks to monitor for conflicts, create siblings, and return 
>> the siblings to the client when a conflict occurs for it to be resolved by 
>> some application dependent logic
>>
>> Now lets map my imaginary field to the actual fields
>>
>> stomp = last\_write\_wins=true + allow\_mult=false
>>
>> most\_recent = last\_write\_wins=false + allow\_mult=false
>>
>> siblings = last\_write\_wins=false + allow\_mult=true
>>
>> Notice that setting both to true has undefined semantics as they are 
>> necessarily mutually exclusive.
>>
>> Also notice that stomp and most\_recent might seem like the same thing on the 
>> surface but they may have different outcomes in different situations.  For 
>> example, stomp would prove to be non-deterministic during the healing of a 
>> split-brain because it will depend on the order of the hinted handoff 
>> transfers.  Honestly, you're best avoiding last\_write\_wins at this point 
>> because it can cause non-obvious behavior and there is potential it may be 
>> removed in the future.
>>
>> HTH,
>> -Ryan
>>
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

