---
title: "Re: Java client: byte arrays as keys?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-07-17T03:32:56-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07973"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg07958"
author_name: "Kaspar Thommen"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-07-17T03:32:56-07:00
---


Brian,

I just identified a potential issue. In my application code all keys are
byte[] arrays (or corresponding 64 bit integers), and in order to make sure
I can generate a valid Riak key String from that byte array I convert using
ISO-8859-1. However, when looking at PBClientAdapter.store() I see that it
calls ConversionUtil.convert(), which in turn calls
ConversionUtil.nullSafeToByteString() which uses UTF-8 encoding. Hence, my
original byte array will likely be different in Riak.

This could could lead to tricky problems like the application code logging
a byte array key that cannot be found in Riak. Do you think it would make
sense to allow the user to specify a custom String/byte[] converter?

Thanks,
Kaspar
 Am 16.07.2012 15:51 schrieb "Brian Roach" :

> Kaspar -
>
> Russell and I got together and discussed this a little more this morning.
>
> The reason it's not exposed at the IRiakClient and RawClient interfaces is
> because the underlying original HTTP client API doesn't support a byte
> array as a key; it only uses String. Because of this, our IRiakObject
> default implementation only takes a String for a key, and our annotation
> processing only works with a String as well. It was all designed around
> being protocol neutral to sit on top of both of the old clients.
>
> That being said, what does work perfectly fine is creating a new String
> from the byte array. Java does the right thing and this works regardless of
> whether you are using the PB or HTTP client:
>
> IRiakClient client = RiakFactory.pbcClient(); // or .httpClient()
> Bucket b = client.fetchBucket("this").execute();
>
> byte[] foo = { 0, 5, 120, 1 };
> String key = new String(foo);
>
> b.store(key, "this is my value").execute();
> IRiakObject o = b.fetch(key).execute();
> System.out.println(o.getValueAsString());
>
> client.shutdown();
>
> Thanks!
> Brian Roach
>
> On Jul 16, 2012, at 1:01 AM, Russell Brown wrote:
>
> > Hi Kaspar,
> >
> > Sorry for the slow reply.
> >
> > On 16 Jul 2012, at 07:49, Kaspar Thommen wrote:
> >
> >> Anyone please?
> >>
> >> On Jun 26, 2012 8:57 PM, "Kaspar Thommen" 
> wrote:
> >> Hi,
> >>
> >> The high-level API in the Java client library (IRiakClient) does not
> allow one to use byte[] arrays as keys, only Strings, whereas the
> underlying PBC and http APIs (e.g. com.basho.riak.pbc.RiakClient) do, via
> the fetch(ByteString, ...) methods. Any reason for this?
> >
> > Oversight or oversimplifying by me.
> >
> >
> >> Is it planned to add byte array keys to IRiakClient as well at some
> point?
> >
> > We should. Please will you raise an issue for it on the RJC github
> repo[1] to ensure we get to it?
> >
> > Cheers
> >
> > Russell
> >
> > [1] Java client issues -
> https://github.com/basho/riak-java-client/issues?direction=desc&sort=created&state=open
> >
> >>
> >> Thanks,
> >> Kaspar
> >>
> >>
> >> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> >> riak-users mailing list
> >> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> >> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> >
> > \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> > riak-users mailing list
> > riak-users@lists.basho.com
> > http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

