---
title: "Questions about Riak Enterprise"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-05-01T12:49:07-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07366"
author_name: "Mark Rose"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-05-01T12:49:07-07:00
---


I've got some questions about Riak Enterprise I haven't been able to find
the answers to.

I understand that the open source version of Riak's replication is designed
for single data center usage only, but I'm unsure about how Riak Entreprise
handles replication. Specifically, I'm curious about locality and high
availability.

Our setup is already running in multiple availability zones on EC2. We're
running Galera across the zones to provide both redundancy and a local copy
of the data to avoid the network latency of going to another zone. However,
Galera, as nice as it is, doesn't scale writes. We're going to be using
Riak to store a lot of information going forward, and may eventually move
our existing data to it as well.

The only thing holding us back from going to multiple regions on Amazon is
our datastore.

How well does Riak handle layered topologies, such as EC2?

Is it possible to configure Riak Enterprise to store two copies of the data
in each EC2 region, ensuring that the two copies are in different zones
when there are more than one Riak servers in a zone?

When a query is run, is it run in one region only? Would Riak prefer copies
of the data in the local zone?

For what it's worth, our current datastore load is roughly half and half
writes and reads. We heavily cache reads with memcache (99%). We may drop
memcache if reads on Riak prove fast enough (thus avoiding the issues of
invalidating remote caches).

Thanks,
Mark
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

