---
title: "Re: Riak Search - searching across all fields"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-12-18T08:24:21-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg09611"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg09594"
author_name: "Ryan Zezeski"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-12-18T08:24:21-08:00
---


On Sat, Dec 15, 2012 at 12:43 AM, Matt Painter  wrote:

> Thanks so much Ryan - yokozuna sounds most promising. If I were building a
> small system (relatively simple, small user base) that will be
> production-ready in a few months, do you think that Yokozuna could cut the
> mustard? I see that it's officially an experimental prototype, but do you
> think it's stable 'enough' in its current state? Sorry if this is an
> impossible question to answer with too many variables...
>

My hope is to start delivering packages of Riak/Yokozuna by late February.
 They probably wouldn't be official Riak packages, but would allow for
easier installation for those that don't want to use AMI/source. Compared
to Riak Search, Yokozuna will do better in almost all cases but a few. In
a few cases Riak Search has an upper hand in latency/throughput but I have
tracked down the cause and will be making some patches to Solr's
distributed search soon. Otherwise, Yokozuna is better in every way.
 Language support, analyzer support, features, performance, robustness,
etc. Over the next couple of months I hope to start publishing benchmarks
and other information.

That said, this is still experimental, and I'm not sure I would recommend
using Yokozuna in production just yet. But I would love to find users to
prototype with to see how well Yokozuna can handle various use cases. If
this sounds interesting to you please send me a direct email.


>
> I must confess that using a forked Riak makes me a touch queasy for
> anything other than playpen stuff. Do you think that a combo deal of Riak +
> elasticsearch could be a suitable compromise for the time-being?
>

The fork of Riak used by Yokozuna is extremely minimal. It mostly consist
of bundling the yokozuna library and sending the KV data so it can be
indexed. The goal is and will continue to be to make \_minimal\_ changes
outside of Yokozuna.

You could certainly combine Riak and ES. Other users of ours have done it.
 Honestly, go with whatever works for you. No need to wait for Yokozuna if
you think you can get it done today with other tools. I will note,
however, that something like that will not be as tightly integrated as
Yokozuna. Which isn't to say it's bad, it's just a trade off to be aware
of. E.g. Yokozuna has built-in active anti-entropy (AAE) with Riak--when
data becomes divergent AAE will detect it and fix it for you without
requiring action on your part. You won't get that with Riak +  (without writing your own code to do it).


-Z
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

