---
title: "Re: Any interest in Seattle office hours or meetup?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-08-08T10:40:13-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08223"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg08220"
author_name: "Thomas Santero"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-08-08T10:40:13-07:00
---


Hi Parnell,

One of our DevOps Engineers, Seth Thomas, is in Austin and is the man you
want to speak to. You can reach him directly at stho...@basho.com

Tom


On Wed, Aug 8, 2012 at 1:23 PM, Parnell Springmeyer wrote:

> Sorry for the double email, hit the send key combo accidentally.
>
> If there are, I can get the Capital Factory guys to host a meet up/get
> together (I'm a tenant in their gorgeous office space).
>
> On Aug 7, 2012, at 2:22 PM, Joseph Blomstedt wrote:
>
> > As many of you already know, Basho is largely a distributed company
> > with the majority of many teams working remotely from their homes,
> > coffee shops, and co-working spaces across the country. There's no
> > reason you need to live near one of our offices in order to interact
> > with Basho engineers and developer advocates -- we're everywhere.
> >
> > With that said, I'd like to set something up in Seattle to engage with
> > local Riak users and enthusiasts.
> >
> > Some thoughts:
> > -- Weekly office hours at a coffee shop or co-working location.
> > -- Monthly or bi-monthly Riak meetup.
> > -- Monthly or bi-monthly Riak drinkup.
> >
> > Is there anyone in the Seattle area who finds any of these ideas
> > interesting? Have a preference? Have other suggestions?
> >
> > In short, I'm soliciting any and all feedback. Is anyone in the
> > Seattle area interested in having weekly/monthly access to come in and
> > pester me (senior engineer at Basho) about anything and everything?
> >
> > -Joe
> >
> >
> > --
> > Joseph Blomstedt 
> > Senior Software Engineer
> > Basho Technologies, Inc.
> > http://www.basho.com/
> >
> > \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> > riak-users mailing list
> > riak-users@lists.basho.com
> > http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

