---
title: "Re: Riak Recap as a Blog (?)"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-06-06T07:33:06-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03575"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg03567"
author_name: "Keith Bennett"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-06-06T07:33:06-07:00
---


Mark -

I think that's a great idea. I'd go even further, and suggest that the 
valuable information discussed on the mailing list be managed in a searchable 
form, as is the case with Google or Yahoo Groups. (Is it searchable now? I 
couldn't see how to search the entire archive for a keyword.)

This would be helpful for we users of riak, and even possibly for riak 
developers, since finding more information might prevent people from asking a 
question that has already been asked in the past, saving them time. In this 
case, you might want to copy the Recap to a message on the mailing list, so 
it's searchable there as well.

Thanks,
Keith


On Jun 6, 2011, at 2:51 AM, Mark Phillips wrote:

> Hey All -
> 
> Quick question: how would you feel if we turned the Riak Recap into a blog?
> 
> I've spoken with various people in various channels about how to best
> deliver the Recap, and while it's clear that it's a valuable tool for
> the community, I'm not sure the Mailing List is still the best vehicle
> through which to publish it.
> 
> Publishing it as a blog (perhaps at "recap.basho.com") makes a lot of
> sense as it would enable people to consume it without having to sift
> through the rest of the mailing list traffic (and I know there are
> more than a few of you who are on this ML only for the Recaps). More
> importantly, I think it would bring more new readers to the Recap (and
> more users to Riak).
> 
> So, in the interest of convenience and expanding the size of the Riak
> community, I think making it a blog might make sense. It would still
> be written, published, and tweeted thrice weekly, just delivered to
> you in your Reader, for example, instead of on the ML.
> 
> As you all are the primary consumers of the Recap, I thought I would
> gather some opinions before I did anything drastic. Anyone have
> thoughts on this?
> 
> +/-1s, rants, and all other expressions of opinion are encouraged.
> 
> Thanks,
> 
> Mark
> 
> Community Manager
> Basho Technologies
> wiki.basho.com
> twitter.com/pharkmillups
> 
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

