---
title: "Re: Logging chat messages"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-10-22T21:32:24-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg09011"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg09010"
author_name: "Rapsey"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-10-22T21:32:24-07:00
---


There is also another trick you can use. Pick a number. Assign every app
server you have a number between 1 and N. The number assigned to the server
is your starting ID, then increment by N every time you generate an ID from
that server. The only limitation is that you have to know in advance how
big N can get (it has to be larger than the number of your app servers).


Sergej

On Tue, Oct 23, 2012 at 6:00 AM, Shashwat Srivastava wrote:

> Thank you Guido. Yes, a secondary index based on date would be immensely
> helpful for me to navigate via date. I will do this. An incremental message
> id would be helpful for me to get last 50 messages and so forth. I will use
> another db for this. Thanks for all your help.
>
> Shashwat
>
>
> On Mon, Oct 22, 2012 at 2:46 PM, Guido Medina wrote:
>
>> Don't overkill it with technology, you could use Riak with a simple 2i
>> index (integer index YYYYMMDD for the message date so you can search day by
>> day backward), and for the message sequence or identifier you could either
>> user ANY SQL database sequence or a UUID generator.
>>
>> HTH,
>>
>> Guido.
>>
>>
>> On 22/10/12 10:04, Rapsey wrote:
>>
>>
>> On Mon, Oct 22, 2012 at 10:29 AM, Shashwat Srivastava 
>> wrote:
>>
>>>
>>> Now, each bucket would have conversation between two users or of a
>>> room of a site. The conversation rate for (some) rooms is very high, some
>>> 20,000 - 30,000 messages per hour. We have observed that users usually
>>> don't access conversations past one week. So, if a bucket has conversation
>>> of 3 years, then mostly users would access the recent conversation upto a
>>> week or month. Can riak handle this easily? Also, would riak use RAM wisely
>>> in this scenario? Would it only keep keys and indexes, corresponding to
>>> recent messages per bucket, in RAM?
>>>
>>>
>> Leveldb backend should.
>>
>>
>>> Finally, what is the best approach for creating keys in a bucket?
>>> Earlier, I was planning to use timestamp (in milliseconds). But in a room
>>> there can be multiple messages at the same time. As I understand I cannot
>>> have a unique incremental message id per bucket (as riak has write
>>> capability in all nodes in a cluster so consistency is not guareented).
>>> Please correct me if I am wrong. One other way could be to let riak
>>> generate key and I use timestamp as a secondary index. But this seems to be
>>> a bad design. Also, what would be the best way to achieve pagination for
>>> this use case?
>>>
>>>
>> You could use redis for incremental id's.
>>
>>
>>
>> Sergej
>>
>>
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing 
>> listriak-users@lists.basho.comhttp://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>
>>
>>
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>
>>
>
>
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

