---
title: "Large scale deployments testing"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-09-21T06:29:18-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08623"
author_name: "Zhemzhitsky Sergey"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-09-21T06:29:18-07:00
---


Hello gurus,

We’re developing a riak-core application, that does not include any persistence 
and works in-memory, and are wondering what are the best use cases to test 
riak-core and erlang itself in large-scale deployments (>100 physical nodes).

For example some of the map-reduce frameworks (like hadoop) have performance 
tests like terasort, etc., which can show to what extent the whole framework 
can be scaled.

So could you share some ideas what are the best practices to test large-scale 
deployments of riak-core and erlang applications? What synthetic tests and 
benchmarks can be executed to answer the following questions:


1. Does the system scale well?

2. Can the system be considered as linearly scalable?

3. Is the system truly fault-tolerant?

Best Regards,
Sergey


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

The information contained in this message may be privileged and conf idential 
and protected from disclosure. If you are not the original intended recipient, 
you are hereby notified that any review, retransmission, dissemination, or 
other use of, or taking of any action in reliance upon, this information is 
prohibited. If you have received this communication in error, please notify the 
sender immediately by replying to this message and delete it from your 
computer. Thank you for your cooperation. Troika Dialog, Russia. 
If you need assistance please contact our Contact Center (+7495) 258 0500 or 
go to www.troika.ru/eng/Contacts/system.wbp 

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

