---
title: "Re: Newbie Ripple"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-06-21T08:36:11-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03760"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg03759"
author_name: "Jeremiah Peschka"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-06-21T08:36:11-07:00
---


Hi Pablo, welcome!

In answer to question 1: I put together an introduction to Riak a while
back, you can find it on github: https://github.com/peschkaj/riak\_intro/

Specifically,
https://github.com/peschkaj/riak\_intro/blob/master/src/mr\_filter.rb has an
example of how to configure get Riak up and running outside of the Rails
framework. Using Ripple is just as simple, you can find some samples in that
repo as well: https://github.com/peschkaj/riak\_intro/tree/master/src/ripple

As far as 2 goes, I think that's handled in Ripple when you save. I could be
wrong, though.

3: I have no idea. Hopefully someone else who knows will chime in. I could
always make something up so that they'll correct me, though. ;)

Jeremiah Peschka
Founder, Brent Ozar PLF, LLC


On Tue, Jun 21, 2011 at 8:28 AM, Pablo Chacin  wrote:

> Hello
>
> I'm new to reply and Ruby in general, so probably my questions have evident
> answers.
> I'm trying to use the Document Model, but there are a few things that are
> not clear from
> the documentation:
> 1. How to configure ripple when used in a ruby (not rails) application.
> 2. I want to do something similar to the get\_or\_new method provided by the
> Bucket (get an existing document or create a new one, it it doesn't exists)
> 3. control the bucket on which the document is stored/retrieve (using an
> attribute). From what I've seen, riak uses the class name as bucket.
>
> Thanks in advance
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

