---
title: "Re: The Riak Feature Wish List"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-08-12T11:41:03-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04369"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04244"
author_name: "Mark Phillips"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-08-12T11:41:03-07:00
---


Hey All,

A bit of an unfortunate development here...

I failed to investigate Zendesk enough before launching this and it
turns out that it's not going to let us do what we need for this type
of interactive forum to work out. Specifically, there is no way to
enable people to register for an account on help.basho.com without
giving them full access to our enterprise ticketing system (which is
only given to paying customers).

So I'm going to take down the page for the moment and look for another
way to do this. Sorry about any confusion and/or hassle this may have
caused for anyone.

Also, if anyone has suggestions on how to better do this, don't be
scared to offer them up.

Mark

On Fri, Aug 5, 2011 at 3:10 PM, Mark Phillips  wrote:
> Hey All
>
> So there has been an elevated amount of discussion of late around
> features and functionality that you would like to see in Riak. This is
> fantastic, and we love hearing where you want Riak to go and how it
> can better suit your various use cases.
>
> To date, there are two avenues for the community to recommend features
> and code for Riak:
>
> \* write the code yourself for a given feature and submit a pull request
> \* make your thoughts and ideas known in a feature request on issues.basho.com
>
> Based on the recent flurry of activity, we wanted try something a bit
> different. We've just created a new page on help.basho.com called "The
> Riak Wish List."
>
> https://help.basho.com/categories/20011362-riak-wishlist
>
> Our hope is that this will give the community a forum to:
>
> a) Log, discuss, and discover new feature requests
> b) Vote on new and existing feature requests\*
> c) Give aspiring contributors a pool of suggestions from which they
> can start if they want to get ambitious and write code for Riak
>
> Ultimately we think this will give us a more unified view of what
> think you need/want for features. And anything that adds more
> transparency to what makes it into Riak is better for every one.
>
> Let us know if you have any questions. I'm looking forward to seeing
> this process develop. Keep the suggestions coming.
>
> Thanks for being a part of Riak.
>
> Mark
>
> Community Manager
> Basho Technologies
> wiki.basho.com
> twitter.com/pharkmillups
>
> \* We are not going to be able accommodate all feature requests. But
> we'll do our best to prioritize the ones that a) fit with our internal
> needs and b) are actually possible given the current architectural
> limitations of a system like Riak.
>

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

