---
title: "Re: Riak 1.0 pre-release series"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-09-08T04:41:14-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04613"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04594"
author_name: "Greg Stein"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-09-08T04:41:14-07:00
---


On Wed, Sep 7, 2011 at 19:24, David Smith  wrote:
>...
> The first stage is "pre-release" (aka PR) builds that represent the
> feature-complete Riak 1.0, with minor cleanup and tweaks still
> ongoing. You WILL find some rough edges with packaging and the
> features -- we're still working through these and will do pre-releases
> as often as necessary to get these issues resolved. We'll also be

Understood.

I just checked out the link (provided below) and did not find a
\*source\* distribution. Could you work that into the distribution?

In my particular situation, I'm working on Mac OS 10.5 (Leopard) and
Ubuntu 9.x. I can manage building if given a source distro, but would
certainly prefer pre-built packages (32-bit on both platforms).

>...
> We would love to get your feedback on these builds, good or bad. We're
> trying this new process to do a better job of incorporating community
> feedback BEFORE the release. :)

hehe... helpful :-) ... I'm not at production load, so I won't be able
to find server bugs for you. But I'll provide packaging feedback where
I can (as above). Most of my feedback will be on the client side, and
I'm already working to engage Basho devs on the riak-python-client
project.

>...
> creating duplicate issues. Also note that the docs on wiki.basho.com
> may still reflect 0.14.2; we'll be addressing those over next few
> weeks.

I had a one-line change for one of those pages last week, and sent
that to this mailing list (and it was promptly fixed; yay!). What is
the recommended "best" process for feedback? Should we all fork the
website, make changes, and send pull requests? Send mail here? File
issues?

>...

Cheers,
-g

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

