---
title: "Re: How to make Riak work faster (writing)"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-11-02T12:10:41-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg09169"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg09165"
author_name: "Uruka Dark"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-11-02T12:10:41-07:00
---


Hi Dimitri,
I don't know why, but I could not receive your reply. I saw it following
the url of the mailing list.

Any way, thank you for your reply.

This is my PHP script:

\*php\*
\* require\_once "riak\_lib/riak.php";\*
\*
\*
\* if (isset($argv[1]))\*
\* {\*
\* define('HOST', $argv[1]);\*
\* }\*
\* else\*
\* {\*
\* define('HOST', '10.1.1.221');\*
\* }\*
\* define('PORT', 8098);\*
\*
\*
\* $client = new RiakClient(HOST, PORT);\*
\* $str = HOST . ":" . PORT;\*
\* if ($client-isAlive())\*
\* {\*
\* echo "$str - ALIVE\n";\*
\* }\*
\* else\*
\* {\*
\* echo "$str - DEAD\n";\*
\* die();\*
\* }\*
\*
\*
\* $bucket = $client->bucket('zbucket');\*
\* $bucket->setNVal(2);\*
\*
\*
\* $cnt = 0;\*
\* $last = time();\*
\* $data = '';\*
\* for ($i=0; $i<10240; $i++)\*
\* {\*
\* $data .= 'A';\*
\* }\*
\*
\*
\* // main loop\*
\* for ($i=0; true; $i++)\*
\* {\*
\* $obj = $bucket->newObject(NULL, $data . $i);\*
\* $obj->store();\*
\* $cnt++;\*
\* if (time() - $last == 1)\*
\* {\*
\* echo "$cnt in $i\n";\*
\* $cnt = 0;\*
\* $last = time();\*
\* }\*
\* }\*
\*?>\*


---------------------------

Uruka,

What does your load testing script look like? If you post the code
somewhere, I'll take a look to see if any obvious stumbling block comes to
mind. I agree, that's way lower than you should be getting with Riak on
that hardware.

Dmitri


On Fri, Nov 2, 2012 at 2:30 PM, Uruka Dark  wrote:

> As I told, maybe I'm trying to use Riak in an improperly way, but this is
> a kind of requirement for me and I expected to be able to do it with Riak.
> I'm looking for a "NoSQL" solution and after try out a few of them, I think
> that I have two great solutions, Couchbase and Riak. To me, Riak seems to
> be much more mature, and this is my primary option, but, as I told, I can
> achieve some numbers with Couchbase that I can't with Riak. Given the
> maturity of Riak, I'm pretty sure that this is a configuration problem, but
> I need some help to find out how to solve it. If any one could help me with
> it, I'll be thankful. I don't want to give up on Riak so fast.
> Thank you.
>
> On Fri, Nov 2, 2012 at 9:46 AM, Uruka Dark  wrote:
>
>> I understand.
>> To eliminate any problems related to Bitcask, I changed to Memory backend
>> and now I can store roughly 80 objs/sec. This speed can be achieved hitting
>> just one of them.
>> I tried to hit both of them at same time, and the speed drops to roughly
>> 68 objs/sec (each).
>> Do you have any suggestion about it?
>>
>> Thank you.
>>
>> On Fri, Nov 2, 2012 at 9:20 AM, Sebastian Cohnen <
>> sebastian.coh...@gmail.com> wrote:
>>
>>> You should hit both servers and not just with a concurrency level of 1.
>>>
>>> There are many more factors to consider, but these are highly dependent
>>> on your actual problem (not just a simple benchmark). Just to name a few:
>>> bitcask settings (
>>> http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/tutorials/choosing-a-backend/Bitcask/#Tuning-Bitcask),
>>> w-quorum, HTTP vs ProtoBuf, ring\_creation\_size, ...
>>>
>>> On 02.11.2012, at 13:15, Uruka Dark  wrote:
>>>
>>> I'm hitting just one of them.
>>> At the beginning I tried to use the default settings (n\_val = 3), then I
>>> started to create the bucket with n\_val = 2. I've tested a lot of
>>> combinations to w, but I could not see any substantial improvement.
>>> If you have any suggestion, please, let me know. I can do any test.
>>>
>>> On Fri, Nov 2, 2012 at 9:04 AM, Sebastian Cohnen <
>>> sebastian.coh...@gmail.com> wrote:
>>>
>>>> What level of concurrency are you using in your test setup? Are you
>>>> hitting both servers with your test? What is your n\_val and w?
>>>>
>>>>
>>>> On 02.11.2012, at 03:42, Uruka Dark  wrote:
>>>>
>>>> > Hi,
>>>> >
>>>> > I'm new here and with Riak. If I do something wrong, please, let me
>>>> know.
>>>> >
>>>> > I've made a Riak cluster with two identical machines: Intel core i3
>>>> 2.3GHz 4GB RAM 1TB HD. They are connected by a gigabit ethernet network.
>>>> Everything is working fine. I'm using a Bitcask backend.
>>>> >
>>>> > I've made a PHP script to do a performance test and find out how fast
>>>> Riak can be with these settings. What my script is doing is: to store 10000
>>>> objects with a 10K long data (string of 10240 x 'A'), and calculating how
>>>> many objects it stores per second.
>>>> >
>>>> > Right now, using Bitcask backend, it can store roughly 68 objects per
>>>> second. It seems to be a small number to me, but I don't know too much
>>>> about Riak. I've tested the same script on a Couchbase cluster, with the
>>>> same settings, and it could store roughly 1000 objects per second.
>>>> Obviously, on Couchbase test, the data is not sent to non-volatile media
>>>> immediately. Data is kept in memory to acknowledge the reception as fast as
>>>> possible, and is sent to non-volatile media in background. I want Riak to
>>>> behave the same way to increase the "writing speed", but I don't know how
>>>> to do it or if it is possible. May be I'm trying to do something completely
>>>> out of the purpose of Riak.
>>>> >
>>>> > I've tested Riak with Memory backend too, but it achieved only 72
>>>> objects per second. I expected it to work faster with Memory backend, cause
>>>> there is no disk activity involved on it, but the final result is not that
>>>> high.
>>>> >
>>>> > Again, I don't know if I'm trying to do something inappropriate. I
>>>> think I'm missing something.
>>>> > Is there any way to do it?
>>>> >
>>>> > If I could not make myself clear, please, let me know.
>>>> > Thank you.
>>>> >
>>>> >
>>>> >
>>>> >
>>>> >
>>>> > \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>>>> > riak-users mailing list
>>>> > riak-users@lists.basho.com
>>>> > http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>>>
>>>>
>>>
>>>
>>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

