---
title: "Re: Announcing Riak Pipe (BETA)"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-06-13T18:41:21-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03687"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg03685"
author_name: "Antonio Rohman Fernandez"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-06-13T18:41:21-07:00
---


> Riak Pipe on the other hand, could be used to build jobs like you would in 
> Hadoop

Can a same job be performed by several servers distributed as a
cluster? or only 1 Pipe server will do the job and Riak KV will be the
distributed cluster?... the good thing of Hadoop is that you can have a
Hadoop cluster and a Riak cluster and both clusters would work
distributed to perform jobs ( Hadoop ) and to deliver data ( Riak KV
)... i wonder how Riak Pipe will work, i hope that it would be like
Hadoop and the computation of a job can be distributed.

Rohman

On Mon, 13 Jun 2011 21:33:44 -0400, Sean Cribbs  wrote:
> You can already use Riak KV as persistence for Hadoop (although it
> can be a bit intensive on IO), I know of one production setup already
> doing this. Riak Pipe on the other hand, could be used to build jobs
> like you would in Hadoop, with greater independence and flexibility
> than Riak KV's standard MapReduce gives you. It's still very new, so
> we're not sure of all the ins-and-outs of supporting it, but we
> encourage you to give it a try.
> 
> Sean Cribbs 
> Developer Advocate
> Basho Technologies, Inc.
> http://basho.com/
> 
> On Jun 13, 2011, at 9:26 PM, Antonio Rohman Fernandez wrote:
> 
>> Can Riak Pipe be used with Hadoop? That would be wonderful!
>>
>> Rohman
>>
>> Sent from my iPad
>>
>> On Jun 14, 2011, at 12:20 AM, Bryan Fink  wrote:
>>
>>> Hello again, Community.
>>>
>>> I'm excited to announce the opening of a new beta-status Basho project
>>> today: Riak Pipe.
>>>
>>> http://github.com/basho/riak\_pipe
>>>
>>> Riak Pipe is a new way to distribute work around a Riak cluster.
>>>
>>> The README explains much more than I can here, but essentially Riak
>>> Pipe allows you to specify work in the form of a chain of function
>>> pairs. One function of that pair describes how to produce output from
>>> input, and the other describes where in the cluster an input should be
>>> processed. Riak Pipe handles the details of ferrying data between
>>> workers by building atop Riak Core's distribution power.
>>>
>>> At this point in time Riak Pipe is BETA-status software. We'd like
>>> anyone who is interested in it to take a look and send us feedback.
>>> Please do not put it into production. We will be continuing to
>>> improve Riak Pipe toward a future release date.
>>>
>>> We have two plans for Riak Pipe. The first is to power Riak's
>>> MapReduce system with it. We think Riak Pipe provides a cleaner, more
>>> manageable subsystem that will provide much easier monitoring,
>>> debugging, and general use of MapReduce in Riak. You can see our work
>>> toward that goal in the "pipe" branch of Riak KV (start at
>>> src/riak\_kv\_mrc\_pipe.erl):
>>>
>>> https://github.com/basho/riak\_kv/tree/pipe
>>>
>>> Our second plan for Riak Pipe is to expand Riak's MapReduce system
>>> with more abilities (imagine a keyed-reduce phase, or additional
>>> processing languages), possibly to the extent of providing an entirely
>>> separate interface (new query syntax? offline/asynchronous
>>> processing?). But for this part, we need your help.
>>>
>>> We have some ideas about what external client interfaces might look
>>> like. We also have some ideas about what an external processing
>>> interface might look like. We're still in the early phases of
>>> creating these, though, so if exploring the riak\_pipe repository gives
>>> you ideas, please don't hesitate to get in touch.
>>>
>>> And, again, Riak Pipe is BETA software. Basho does not support
>>> running it in production at this time.
>>>
>>> Cheers,
>>>
>>> Bryan Fink
>>> Senior Software Engineer
>>> Basho Technologies
>>>
>>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>>> riak-users mailing list
>>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

-- 
ANTONIO ROHMAN FERNANDEZ
CEO, Founder & Lead Engineer
roh...@mahalostudio.com 
PROJECTS
MaruBatsu.es
PupCloud.com
Wedding Album

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

