---
title: "Re: PHP client overhaul"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-09-14T08:32:22-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04702"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04699"
author_name: "Mark Steele"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-09-14T08:32:22-07:00
---


Looks great!

We are currently still using the 5.2 series, but a better client that only
supports 5.3 might motivate us to upgrade.

I would just add to make any read-before-write stuff optional (for
performance reasons), same with returnbody behaviors.

Sibling resolution is very application specific. Not sure how to approach
that one unless you encapsulate the data payload somehow (like this:
http://labs.mochimedia.com/archive/2011/05/08/statebox/). Even so, that
locks you into one approach which may not fit all types of applications. I'd
love to see statebox-like code baked in though.

We usually do all of our conflict resolution at read time (using an approach
similar to statebox) whenever an object is returned with siblings.

Cheers

Mark

On Wed, Sep 14, 2011 at 10:23 AM, Kev Burns  wrote:

>
> Riak 1.0 is coming soon.
> Now would be a good time to overhaul the PHP client.
>
> Goals
>
> - Add support for Protocol Buffers
> - Add support for new Riak 1.0 features (2i, pr, pw, client\_id, etc)
> - Add performance benchmarks
> - Improve network performance
> - Improve tests
> - Add support for streaming results
> - Add automatic read-before-write
> - Add support for retries and sibling resolution
> - Discourage expensive operations by throwing warnings
>
> I also think it's time the client required PHP 5.3+
>
> - Namespacing for better class organization
> - Late static binding for looser coupling and greater extensibility
> - Anonymous functions for inline retries and sibling resolution
>
> Is there anyone using PHP 5.2 in production with Riak that hasn't upgraded
> to PHP 5.3?
>
>
> - Kev
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

