---
title: "Re: Nitrogen"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-09-27T00:56:42-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04889"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04886"
author_name: "Marc Worrell"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-09-27T00:56:42-07:00
---


Hello Mike,

When you want to use a framework with Riak support "out of the box" then you 
should try Chicago Boss.

I am wondering what your problems with Nitrogen are, maybe you can mail them to 
the Nitrogen list? There are many helpful people over there, and I haven't seen 
build-problems passing by on that list.

Same for Zotonic, when you run into problems: check the Zotonic users list.

But seriously, when you need a ticketing/reporting tool then you better check 
the various open source projects in that area. I have good experience with 
redmine, track and bugzilla. They work, have been tested very well, and have 
plenty of plug-ins and tools around them.

- Marc


On 27 sep 2011, at 04:50, Mike Oxford wrote:

> Is anyone using this as a frontend for Riak?
> 
> I'm looking at using it, but the packaging is kind of wonky, thought
> it's kind of based around Rebar (I'm trying to use it as a dep) so it
> doesn't build clean in that situation.
> 
> Zotonic didn't work real well, even following tutorials and whatnot.
> I haven't tried Chicago Boss yet, though that looks good.
> 
> I need to build out a ticket/reporting tool, and while I could do it
> with erlydtl, using Misultin that I have already, I figured I'd try to
> leverage existing code and hopefully save myself some work.
> Of course, it's not rocket science so even a few days wasted with
> frameworks is most of the project right there.
> 
> Anyone have any experience with these, backed by Riak?
> Is it worth working around Nitrogen's wonky layout/building, or should
> I move toward something else?
> 
> Thanks!
> 
> -mox
> 
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

