---
title: "Re: tools for debugging clients?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-01-18T02:01:42-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg02019"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg02018"
author_name: "Nico Meyer"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-01-18T02:01:42-08:00
---


Hi Gary,

this is a known bug in the python client. See
https://issues.basho.com/show\_bug.cgi?id=695

The fix is fairly simple and also mentioned in the bug report.

Cheers,
Nico

Am Montag, den 17.01.2011, 21:18 -0800 schrieb Gary William Flake:
> I am using the python client api and in some of my runs python was crashing. 
> My gut reaction was that it was probably some untested corner case (I am 
> doing millions of insertions) or that the python client was buggy and that I 
> would eventually just switch over to another client need be.
> 
> But I am now wondering if the fault is actually in the riak instance and not 
> the client. Here's why: the error is now occurring with much higher 
> frequency (after thousands of insertions instead of millions), but the really 
> suspicious thing is that independent of the data, the error is reporting a 
> short read of exactly the same size.
> 
> For example, here is the error from the crash.
> 
> Traceback (most recent call last):
> File "wikipedia.py", line 730, in 
> main()
> File "wikipedia.py", line 715, in main
> item.add\_link(bucket.get(link), 'link') 
> File "build/bdist.macosx-10.6-universal/egg/riak/bucket.py", line 245, in 
> get
> File "build/bdist.macosx-10.6-universal/egg/riak/riak\_object.py", line 290, 
> in reload
> File "build/bdist.macosx-10.6-universal/egg/riak/transports/pbc.py", line 
> 157, in get
> File "build/bdist.macosx-10.6-universal/egg/riak/transports/pbc.py", line 
> 349, in recv\_msg
> File "build/bdist.macosx-10.6-universal/egg/riak/transports/pbc.py", line 
> 399, in recv\_pkt
> riak.RiakError: 'Socket returned short read 7928 - expected 8192'
> 
> I am guessing the 8192 is just an 8K buffer, but the short read of 7928 -- 
> that's the number that keeps popping up. Different data, short read, 
> expected 8192, but got 7928 bytes.
> 
> While typing all of the above, it happened again... this time after 1124 
> writes. And my python code gets restarted each time, so the odds of its 
> internal structures causing the problems seems low.
> 
> Thoughts?
> 
> -- GWF
> 
> 
> 
> 
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com



\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

