---
title: "Re: Multiple 'database' in Riak"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-01-19T09:50:50-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg09847"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg09846"
author_name: "Guido Medina"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-01-19T09:50:50-08:00
---


Neither or both mixed? You could have prefixes per buckets and have N 
applications per cluster and add a 5 nodes cluster as needed, so that 
you can host as many per cluster, that way you know each bucket prefix 
point to an specific app.


Hope that helps,

Guido.

On 19/01/13 17:26, Jeremiah Peschka wrote:

That really depends on what you hope to accomplish.

If you want both applications to have the same performance 
characteristics, then go with option 1.
If you want the fun of troubleshooting two applications to figure out 
why one application is having performance problems, go with option 2.


Is there any reason you can't use different bucket names to run a 
single riak cluster?


---
Jeremiah Peschka - Founder, Brent Ozar Unlimited
MCITP: SQL Server 2008, MVP
Cloudera Certified Developer for Apache Hadoop


On Sat, Jan 19, 2013 at 9:07 AM, Jimmy Ho > wrote:


 Hi guys,

 I knew a similar questions have been asked, but would like to find
 out what are some sensible ways to deploy riak for both for
 multiple applications, or even uat + prod environments.

 Let's assume I have a budget for 10 servers.

 I have two applications I wish to deploy into PROD (hence needing
 two 'databases').

 Would it make sense to,

 1. build two clusters, 5 nodes each, for each of the app,
 completely isolated.
 2. build two cluster, each host to have two instances of riak, ie
 forming a 2 x 10node clusters

 Another assumption: both apps have similar resource consumption at
 anyone time.

 Which would would benefit the most from riak's distributed
 architecture ?

 I suppose I am trying to explore ways to maximise server utilisation.

 Thanks.

 Jimmy

 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
 riak-users mailing list
 riak-users@lists.basho.com 
 http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com




\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

