---
title: "Re: Authentication and an example deploy script?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-04-11T22:29:22-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00000"
author_name: "Tyler Smart"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-04-11T22:29:22-07:00
---


Thank you Sean and Preston!

I will look into client certificate verification as the Riak server will be
on EC/2 but our application server is still Heroku. I saw over at 37 signals
that they had some cookbooks for chef that used ec/2 and a bunch of others.
I am wondering If I can modify their cookbooks to deploy Riak (maybe the
EC-2 one)

Tyler

On Sun, Apr 11, 2010 at 8:04 AM, Sean Cribbs  wrote:

> As Preston says, we recommend putting a web-server in front of your Riak
> machine when you need authentication. If you're using SSL to connect, you
> could also use client certificate verification. In general, however, it
> would be easiest to put your Riak machines and your application machines in
> the same EC2 security group.
>
> Sean Cribbs 
> Developer Advocate
> Basho Technologies, Inc.
> http://basho.com/
>
> On Apr 11, 2010, at 2:33 AM, Preston Marshall wrote:
>
> I haven't seen any authentication in Riak, they might expect you to to
> throw a web server or something similar in front of it to handle
> authentication. I'm sure Nginx can more than handle the job of
> authentication.
>
> On Sun, Apr 11, 2010 at 1:30 AM, Tyler Smart wrote:
>
>> Hi Riak users!
>>
>> As a newbie, I am wondering what the best way to authenticate is? Let's
>> say I have a eroku server that will connect to the riak server over https.
>> How should the Riak node handle authentication such that only the heroku
>> server can access the data? Also, if we are deploying onto Amazon, do you
>> guys have any pre-built chef scripts I could study to get up to speed with
>> Riak deploys?
>>
>> Sincerely,
>> Tyler
>>
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>
>>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

