---
title: "Re: basho bench - custom value generator"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-09-14T06:15:24-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01076"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg01075"
author_name: "Sean Cribbs"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-09-14T06:15:24-07:00
---


The Args list in the configuration is the actual list of arguments when given 
to erlang:apply (length of list must match the function arity), not a single 
argument that's a list (subtle difference). If you want the latter, make it a 
nested list, e.g. [[{option,value}]].

Sean Cribbs 
Developer Advocate
Basho Technologies, Inc.
http://basho.com/

On Sep 13, 2010, at 10:04 PM, Joseph Lambert wrote:

> I found that changing
> 
> erlang:apply(Module, Function, [Id] ++ Args);
> 
> to 
> 
> Module:Function([Id] ++ Args);
> 
> in basho\_bench\_valgen, got rid of the error. I'm not sure the reason why.
> 
> 
> - Joe Lambert
> 
> joseph.g.lamb...@gmail.com
> 
> 
> On Mon, Sep 13, 2010 at 6:38 PM, Joseph Lambert  
> wrote:
> Hi,
> 
> I'm trying to create a custom value generator for Basho Bench, but keep 
> getting this error:
> 
> escript: exception error: no match of right hand side value 
> {error,
> {bad\_return,
> {{basho\_bench\_app,start,[normal,[]]},
> {'EXIT',
> {{badmatch,{error,shutdown}},
> [{basho\_bench\_app,start,2},
> {application\_master,start\_it\_old,4}]}}}}}
> in function basho\_bench:main/1
> in call from escript:run/2
> in call from escript:start/1
> in call from init:start\_it/1
> in call from init:start\_em/1
> 
> =INFO REPORT==== 13-Sep-2010::18:21:50 ===
> application: basho\_bench
> exited: {bad\_return,{{basho\_bench\_app,start,[normal,[]]},
> {'EXIT',{{badmatch,{error,shutdown}},
> [{basho\_bench\_app,start,2},
> {application\_master,start\_it\_old,4}]}}}}
> type: permanent
> 
> It seems to fail right when it calls erlang:apply() on the function, and 
> never seems to enter my custom function. 
> 
> I have this in the basho bench config file:
> 
> {value\_generator, {function, rpbc\_thread\_gen, new\_thread, [{user\_count, 
> 10000}] } }.
> 
> Args is just passing in a tuple list, and my rpbc\_thread\_gen module looks 
> like this: 
> 
> new\_thread(Args) ->
> fun() -> do\_new\_thread(Args) end.
> 
> do\_new\_thread simply returns binary, but like I said, it never seems to enter 
> the new\_thread() function.
> 
> I've also made sure to add my module to the modules list in the .app file and 
> all the example tests run fine.
> 
> I'm not sure what I am missing here, hopefully someone can point me in the 
> right direction.
> 
> Another question, is there anyway to pass the generated key to my custom 
> value generator, or do I also need to write a new driver as well?
> 
> Thanks!
> 
> - Joe Lambert
> 
> joseph.g.lamb...@gmail.com
> 
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

