---
title: "Re: riak-search Benchmar.k"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-11-04T18:06:50-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01470"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg01458"
author_name: "Pablo Borges"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-11-04T18:06:50-07:00
---


I haven't used your data, but I'm trying to benchmark riak search against
solr.

For my test, I'm using each paragraph in the english version of wikipedia as
a document as well as some sequential and random data in a couple of fields
to reflect our current usage (which is a CMS). That's about 22 million
documents. My initial test is using just one machine to load it all, but in
the next couple of days, I'll be using a 5 node Dell R610 with 24GB RAM and
SSD drives to see how well it will perform against solr, which will be using
the same machines.

Right now, I'm looking into stats information to plot graphs (we use cacti).
So far, I've been using a few numbers from /stats page (and trying to figure
out what they mean. lol).

The only numbers I've got so far is that I was able to index about 1 million
documents at a rate of 65 documents/s while the solr interface works pretty
fast and the load on the machine seems to be steady (around 2.5).

I'd really like some real world input to build the graphs, and when I'm
done, I'm gonna post them on the wiki. :D

Cheers,

On Thu, Nov 4, 2010 at 2:13 PM, Prometheus WillSurvive <
prometheus.willsurv...@gmail.com> wrote:

> Hi Guys,
>
> Week ago I put data ready to index riaksearch via solr interface in the
> rapidshare to make it available to community.
>
> I would love to get some benchmark resuts from you guys. Is there anybody
> test it ?
>
>
> Prometheus..
>
>
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

