---
title: "Re: Search and Erlang client"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-02-27T11:17:51-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06757"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06755"
author_name: "Doug Selph"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-02-27T11:17:51-08:00
---


Hi Dan,

Well, I'm stumped. When creating the object, I pass "application/json" as
content-type, but all my objects have content-type set to
"application/octet-stream"

Does the erlang client save everything as a binary?

Thanks,
Doug


On Mon, Feb 27, 2012 at 12:10 PM, Dan Reverri  wrote:

> Hi Doug,
>
> Can you confirm the "Content-Type" header is set to "application/json" by
> reading the JSON objects you stored?
>
> Can you share an example JSON object as well as an example query you are
> running with "search-cmd"?
>
> Thank you,
> Dan
>
> Daniel Reverri
> Developer Advocate
> Basho Technologies, Inc.
> d...@basho.com
>
>
> On Sun, Feb 26, 2012 at 9:01 PM, Doug Selph  wrote:
>
>> I'm having trouble with riak-search. If I use the seach-cmd command line
>> tool to index text files, I can search the index using both search-cmd and
>> the sold interface. However, when I store JSON objects via the erlang
>> protocol buffers client, in a bucket which has the search pre-commit
>> trigger installed, searches in that index always return 0 matches for
>> search terms which have matches in the bucket. (I have saved these objects
>> to the bucket after the pre-commit trigger was installed.)
>>
>> Is there a trick to this? It is my understanding that there is a default
>> schema for JSON objects, which should be sufficient as a starting point.
>>
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>
>>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

