---
title: "Re: webmachine error"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-12-09T18:27:00-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05909"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg05865"
author_name: "Ryan Zezeski"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-12-09T18:27:00-08:00
---


On Tue, Dec 6, 2011 at 8:16 AM, Anna Byszkin wrote:

>
> Java riak-client version 1.0.1.
>

You're using the Java client with the HTTP transport?


>
> Problem:
> -----
> I couldn't find a key stored in Riak. 'Stored' means that the application
> call:
> .store(, object.toString()).execute();
> finished successfully and I found a relevant info in the application log.
> However later I couldn't find this key in Riak.
>
>
How much later? Have you tried doing the write and then a read directly
after? Have you tried a read with curl?


> In the error.log and crash.log files I can see:
> ------
> [error] webmachine error:
> path="/riak/elists/84kZEElqXqNCLZ\_ZCQcRHpTbCD5c77AREvB\_K3jGcm4"
>
> {error,{error,{badmatch,{error,closed}},[{webmachine\_request,recv\_unchunked\_body,4},{webmachine\_request,do\_recv\_body,2},{webmachine\_request,call,2},{wrq,req\_body,1},{riak\_kv\_wm\_object,accept\_doc\_body,2},{webmachine\_resource,resource\_call,3},{webmachine\_resource,do,3},{webmachine\_decision\_core,resource\_call,1}]}}
> ------
>
> Could it be a problem with the cluster configuration or maybe the client
> (strange that I didn't get any exception if the store() method failed)?
> Don't see any errors in syslog. What else could I check?
> Has anyone else seen that (and possibly resolved ;))?
>

I'm sticking with my original response. It seems for whatever reason the
socket has closed on you. You see no other errors in any of the logs? Do
you see anything interesting in console.log?

-Ryan
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

