---
title: "Re: Riak and Distributed Image Processing"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-11-07T13:57:40-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05460"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg05458"
author_name: "Nate Lawson"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-11-07T13:57:40-08:00
---


On Nov 7, 2011, at 1:23 PM, andrew cooke wrote:

> Apologies if this is a dumb idea, or I am asking in the wrong place. I'm
> muddling around trying to understand various bits of technology while piecing
> together a possible project. So feel free to tell me I'm wrong :o)
> 
> I am considering how best to design a system that processes data from
> telescopes. A typical "step" in the processing might involve combining a
> small number of calibration images with a (possibly large) set of observation
> images in some way and then adding the result. To do this in a distributed
> manner you would have the observations on various machines, broadcast the
> calibrations, then do a map (the per-observation processing) followed by a
> reduce (the summing).
> 
> So, in very vague terms, this fits roughly into map-reduce territory. What I
> am doing now is seeing how the details work out with various "nosql" systems.
> 
> So my basic question is: how would the above fit with Riak? Alternatively,
> what else should I consider?

Riak isn't good for computationally-expensive, long-running processing. You 
generally want to avoid M-R queries that take more than a couple seconds. I 
think your image processing job is better handled by something like Hadoop.

I think of Riak as a standard K-V store with the ability to customize query 
results with additional Erlang processing. It's almost like M-R is a misnomer 
for this feature.

-Nate
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

