---
title: "Re: v1.0.3 search merge index preventing partition handoff?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-01-26T18:48:09-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06442"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06434"
author_name: "Ryan Fisher"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-01-26T18:48:09-08:00
---


Hi Ryan,

Thanks for the help,


Ryan Zezeski-2 wrote
> 
> Did you forget to paste in what you are still seeing? Is it the tainted
> ring message?
> 
I used the RAW tag to try and drop that log in, not sure why that didn't
come through but anyway it is the tainted ring message! Good guess!
Let me try again...
---------------
2012-01-26 08:49:38.120 [error] <0.1434.0>@riak\_core\_ring:check\_tainted:216
Error: riak\_core\_ring/ring\_ready called on tainted ring
2012-01-26 08:49:38.179 [error] <0.1453.0>@riak\_core\_ring:check\_tainted:216
Error: riak\_core\_ring/ring\_ready called on tainted ring
2012-01-26 08:49:42.796 [error] <0.117.0>@riak\_core\_ring:check\_tainted:216
Error: riak\_core\_gossip/send\_ring\_to :: Sending tainted ring over gossip
2012-01-26 08:49:42.882 [error] <0.263.0>@riak\_core\_ring:check\_tainted:216
Error: riak\_core\_ring/ring\_ready called on tainted ring
2012-01-26 08:49:42.884 [error] <0.4441.0>@riak\_core\_ring:check\_tainted:216
Error: riak\_core\_ring/ring\_ready called on tainted ring
---------------

So is that ok to have? Or is something still not right in the ring?


Ryan Zezeski-2 wrote
> 
> Unfortunately, no. The recommended way is to re-index all your keys to
> verify that you recreated the destroyed indexes.
> 

So in order to re-index all the keys can I run the simply run the search-cmd
on the bucket w/ some params? Or do I need to use one of the clients to
literately open each key, and then re-save it?

thanks again for the help,
Ryan Fisher



--
View this message in context: 
http://riak-users.197444.n3.nabble.com/v1-0-3-search-merge-index-preventing-partition-handoff-tp3688803p3692307.html
Sent from the Riak Users mailing list archive at Nabble.com.

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

