---
title: "Re: Java client API"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-03-24T13:53:05-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg02741"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg02737"
author_name: "Hec H"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-03-24T13:53:05-07:00
---


Really cool to see general thoughts on java driver. Non related: +1 Jetty 
driver 
- pretty granular api behavior plus intuitive interface. Also Stringtree offers 
a flawless mapping of hashmap - json and seems pretty flexible.


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
From: Russell Brown 
To: Sean Cribbs 
Cc: riak-users@lists.basho.com
Sent: Thu, 24 March, 2011 15:43:50
Subject: Re: Java client API


On 24 Mar 2011, at 14:15, Sean Cribbs wrote:

>>> Likewise, I'd like to suggest RiakDoc
>> 
>> I can see why but I think that might be too specific, not every entry in 
>> riak 
>>is a document (but every document in riak is an entry.)
>> 
> 
> I understand the desire to have a better name for what you're storing in Riak 
>(I went down that road myself in the Ruby client for a while), but for 
>consistency's sake it makes most sense to use "object" over "entry" or "doc". 
>Using something else just invites confusion when someone reads the wiki and 
>other documentation and then tries to apply what they learned to a specific 
>language driver.

Oh yeah. I had not even considered that. A strong enough reason to settle it 
(for me at least.)

> That said, there's no reason you can't build abstractions over the top of the 
>object that are documents, entries, blobs, etc.
> 
> "RObject" is the class name the Ruby client uses, for what it's worth.
> 
> Sean Cribbs 
> Developer Advocate
> Basho Technologies, Inc.
> http://basho.com/
> 
> 
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com



 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

