---
title: "Riak Recap for Oct 6-7"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-10-08T13:31:38-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01235"
author_name: "Mark Phillips"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-10-08T13:31:38-07:00
---


Afternoon, Evening, Morning to all,

Here is a short recap to take you into the weekend.

Enjoy!

Mark

Community Manager
Basho Technologies
wiki.basho.com
twitter.com/pharkmillups

----

Riak Recap for Oct 6-7

1) For anyone in the LA area, @darrenrush is hiring for his Santa
Monica based startup. If you're into Ruby, Jquery, Sinatra, Solr and,
of course, Riak, then get in touch with him.

2) @siculars presented at the NYCNoSQL meetup on October 5th. The
title of his talk was "Adding Riak to your NoSQL Bag of Tricks."

Slides are here --->
http://www.slideshare.net/siculars/adding-riak-to-your-nosql-bag-of-tricks

3) I've had a few people email over the last week asking for links to
presos and slide decks that would serve as good reference points for
their own talks or presentations. Guess we aren't doing a great job of
publicizing the existence of the "Slides" page on the wiki :(

It's here ---> http://wiki.basho.com/display/RIAK/Slides

I'll see what I can do about making it more apparent.

4) seancribbs, allen and justinsheehy had a short chat in #riak about
the specifics of bucket deletion.

Gist here ---> http://gist.github.com/617383

5) Q --- Is it possible to configure a particular \_bucket's\_
properties in app.config? (from andrewoswald via #riak)

 A --- Not a specific bucket, but the defaults. However, you should
only need to change them once, since after that it'll be in the ring
state.

6) dchote, benblack, dizzdy and benchmark had a brief chat in #riak
that started with "Is there any "turn up the debugging, and log to
this file" stuff for
non-erlang people to figure out?"

Gist here ---> http://gist.github.com/617394

7) Q --- Hey riak guys - you're based at 4th and folsom right? (from
ossareh via #riak)

 A --- Yup. This is one of our offices (the other being in
Cambridge, MA). If you're in the area (or in the building) and want to
say hello, we'd be more than happy to have you. Just make sure to
shoot me (or someone else) a heads up before you appear.

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

