---
title: "Re: about random-generated keys and UUIDs"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-03-11T04:32:18-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg02615"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg02614"
author_name: "Antonio Rohman Fernandez"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-03-11T04:32:18-08:00
---


sure, i'm not confusing with MD5, this algorithm is a joke to use as a secure 
hashing mechanism, too many collisions.
about SHA-1... from wikipedia: "A 2008 attack by Stéphane Manuel breaks the 
hash function, as it can produce hash collisions with a complexity of 251 
operations", so, even hard, collisions are possible.
either way, glad to know the random id in Riak is fairly trustful, no more 
questions then : ) thanks

Rohman
 

 Antonio Rohman Fernandez
CEO, Founder & Lead Engineer
roh...@mahalostudio.com
 Projects
MaruBatsu.es
PupCloud.com
Wedding Album
 

On Mar 11, 2011, at 7:48 PM, Alexander Sicular wrote:

> Sven is correct. But in exactitude this is a base 62 encoding (a-zA-Z0-9). 
> The collision function of concern here is the erlang implementation of sha. 
> Oh, and ya, have a high degree of confidence in it. 
> 
> On Mar 11, 2011 6:40 AM, "Sven Johansson"  wrote:
> > On Fri, Mar 11, 2011 at 11:16 AM, Antonio Rohman Fernandez <
> > roh...@mahalostudio.com> wrote:
> > 
> >> well, maybe i'm wrong, but i don't think base64 is very collision-free if
> >> you have millions of entries in a same bucket... because even your 
> >> algorithm
> >> include some uniqueness on it, base64 encoding it could get into some
> >> collision:
> >>
> >> base64(superawesomeuniquestring) can be same as
> >> base64(anothersuperawesomeuniquestring)
> >>
> >> Actually, that's not correct. Base64 is just a simple encoding algorithm,
> > completely lossless and with a unique output for every unique input.
> > In other words, base64(somestring) != base64(someotherstring) always holds
> > true.
> > 
> > Maybe you are confusing it with destructive cryptographic functions like MD5
> > ?
> > 
> > Sven Johansson
> > Twitter: @svjson
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

