---
title: "Re: Score for each search"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-08-04T12:30:29-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04233"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04043"
author_name: "Archana Bhattarai"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-08-04T12:30:29-07:00
---


Hi Rusty,

Thanks a lot for the answer. We could get some data in the keydata as follows:


[{"p":[43,0],"score":[5.3669048584479,1.7201627119528418]}

But couldn't exactly interpret what it's representing. I believe p is giving 
positional information. But why is it two dimensional when the word we searched 
only occurred once in the document. Does the position ignore stopword positions 
and just count other words? Also why are there two scores ? Isn't the score 
normalized ? Or am I doing something wrong to get these scores ?


Thanks a lot in advance,
Archana


On Jul 22, 2011, at 11:09 AM, Rusty Klophaus wrote:

Hi Archana,

Yes. When you use a search query to initiate a map/reduce job, the scores are 
fed into the first phase as keydata, along with other metadata about the search 
result including positional information and any inline fields.

More information in the links below:

 \* 
http://wiki.basho.com/Riak-Search---Querying.html#Querying-Integrated-with-Map-Reduce
 \* http://wiki.basho.com/MapReduce.html (search for "keydata")

Best,
Rusty

On Fri, Jul 22, 2011 at 10:53 AM, Archana Bhattarai 
> wrote:
Hi,

Is there a way to get back the score while querying via solr interface or 
ideally mapreduce over search ? It looks like solr interface only supports 
sorting.


Thanks in advance,
Archana
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com



--
Rusty Klophaus

Basho Technologies, Inc.
11921 Freedom Drive, Suite 550
Reston, VA 20190
www.basho.com




\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

