---
title: "Re: Index issue"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-12-05T07:04:37-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg09435"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg09434"
author_name: "Gideon de Kok"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-12-05T07:04:37-08:00
---


I'm not using Ripple, but am assuming that line of code fetches the object by 
index. 
As I stated before; since you are using Bitcask, you can't use any secondary 
indexes.

Information about 2i can be found at: 
http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/tutorials/querying/Secondary-Indexes/
I suggest to read those pages and the ones about choosing backends to get a 
better view how Riak actually works and how to configure it properly.

Cheers,

On Dec 5, 2012, at 4:00 PM, Martin Streicher  wrote:

> Gideon: Thanks. 
> 
> A few more details. 
> 
> I am using Ripple. These are the critical lines, where the latter is a class 
> method. 
> 
> property :zid\_id, String, index: true
> 
> def self.find\_by\_zid(zid)
> key = zid.respond\_to?(:key) ? zid.key : zid
> find\_by\_index('zid\_id', key).first
> end
> 
> I have this in my app.config
> {storage\_backend, riak\_kv\_bitcask\_backend},
> 
> My rspec tests pass.
> 
> Any other clues?
> 
> On Dec 5, 2012, at 9:53 AM, Gideon de Kok wrote:
> 
>> Probably because you've already configured leveldb as backend.
>> There is a tutorial: 
>> http://docs.basho.com/riak/1.2.0/tutorials/choosing-a-backend/LevelDB/ on 
>> how to switch backends…
>> 
>> Cheers,
>> 
>> 
>> On Dec 5, 2012, at 3:51 PM, Martin Streicher  
>> wrote:
>> 
>>> 
>>> Hmmm... then why does the code work on my machine? 
>>> 
>>> And how do I switch backends?
>>> 
>>> 
>>> On Dec 5, 2012, at 9:47 AM, Gideon de Kok wrote:
>>> 
>>>> Martin,
>>>> 
>>>> Your log nicely states what the problem is: 
>>>> {indexes\_not\_supported,riak\_kv\_bitcask\_backend}
>>>> 
>>>> For 2i based queries, you should be using the eleveldb backend…
>>>> 
>>>> Cheers,
>>>> 
>>>> On Dec 5, 2012, at 3:43 PM, Martin Streicher  
>>>> wrote:
>>>> 
>>>>> 
>>>>> A colleague is getting the following error...
>>>>> 
>>>>> Riak::HTTPFailedRequest (Expected 200 from Riak but received 500. 
>>>>> 500 Internal Server 
>>>>> ErrorInternal Server Error
=====================

The server 
>>>>> encountered an error while processing this 
>>>>> request:  

```
{error,{error,{indexes_not_supported,riak_kv_bitcask_backend}}}
```


---

mochiweb+webmachine
>>>>> web server

):
>>>>> app/controllers/profiles\_controller.rb:28:in `find\_identity'
>>>>> 
>>>>> We've run search-cmd install on the bucket. The code for the app 
>>>>> essentially does the search-cmd operation at startup, too. 
>>>>> 
>>>>> There is one field in the model where index: true. This parameter was 
>>>>> added recently so I can run find\_by\_index to lookup records by the field 
>>>>> values, but my machine did not have any issues. 
>>>>> 
>>>>> Any ideas?
>>>>> 
>>>>> Martin
>>>>> 
>>>>> 
>>>>> 
>>>>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>>>>> riak-users mailing list
>>>>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>>>>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>>> 
>>> 
>> 
> 

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

