---
title: "Re: Riak Recap as a Blog (?)"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-06-06T06:20:03-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03570"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg03567"
author_name: "Jeremiah Peschka"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-06-06T06:20:03-07:00
---


Your ideas intrigue me and I would like to subscribe to your Atom feed.

--- 
Jeremiah Peschka
Founder, Brent Ozar PLF


On Sunday, June 5, 2011 at 11:51 PM, Mark Phillips wrote:

> Hey All -
> 
> Quick question: how would you feel if we turned the Riak Recap into a blog?
> 
> I've spoken with various people in various channels about how to best
> deliver the Recap, and while it's clear that it's a valuable tool for
> the community, I'm not sure the Mailing List is still the best vehicle
> through which to publish it.
> 
> Publishing it as a blog (perhaps at "recap.basho.com 
> (http://recap.basho.com)") makes a lot of
> sense as it would enable people to consume it without having to sift
> through the rest of the mailing list traffic (and I know there are
> more than a few of you who are on this ML only for the Recaps). More
> importantly, I think it would bring more new readers to the Recap (and
> more users to Riak).
> 
> So, in the interest of convenience and expanding the size of the Riak
> community, I think making it a blog might make sense. It would still
> be written, published, and tweeted thrice weekly, just delivered to
> you in your Reader, for example, instead of on the ML.
> 
> As you all are the primary consumers of the Recap, I thought I would
> gather some opinions before I did anything drastic. Anyone have
> thoughts on this?
> 
> +/-1s, rants, and all other expressions of opinion are encouraged.
> 
> Thanks,
> 
> Mark
> 
> Community Manager
> Basho Technologies
> wiki.basho.com (http://wiki.basho.com)
> twitter.com/pharkmillups (http://twitter.com/pharkmillups)
> 
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

