---
title: "Upgrading 0.14.2 cluster to 1.2"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-08-09T17:24:31-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08252"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg08238"
author_name: "Joseph Blomstedt"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-08-09T17:24:31-07:00
---


(Note: Just realized I didn't send this to the riak-users mailing
list. Re-sending so everyone sees my reply)

Yes, this makes sense unfortunately. 'riak-admin transfers' isn't
going to work for you in a mixed 0.14.2 and 1.2 cluster.

Between 0.14.2 and 1.0, the entire cluster system was revamped. One
consequence of this change was that 'riak-admin transfers' would only
work on the 1.0+ nodes in the cluster, not any of the 0.14.2 nodes. At
the time, this wasn't a major issue because you could just use the
command on the right nodes and get the information you needed until
all nodes were eventually upgraded.

For Riak 1.2, 'riak-admin transfers' has been changed again. This
time, in a mixed cluster 'riak-admin transfers' only works on the
older nodes, not the Riak 1.2 nodes. For example, in a mixed 1.1 and
1.2 cluster, you can only use riak-admin transfers on the 1.1 nodes
until all have been upgraded.

Unfortunately, the combination doesn't work out well for you in this
case. Riak 0.14.2 transfers fails if there are any 1.0+ nodes in the
cluster, and Riak 1.2 transfers fails if there are any <1.2 nodes in
the cluster. Both are true, and therefore neither versions of Riak
can properly give you transfer information.

Of course, the lack of being able to monitor transfers doesn't mean
things aren't actually working. Running 'riak-admin member\_status' and
'riak-admin ring\_status' on the newer nodes should provide enough
detail about what's going on to see if your cluster is moving along.

Regards,
Joe


On Thu, Aug 9, 2012 at 1:25 PM, Sebastian Cohnen
 wrote:
> I forgot to mention, that I also ran 
> "riak\_core\_node\_watcher:service\_up(riak\_pipe, self())." on the 0.14.2 node 
> (got that from here: http://wiki.basho.com/Rolling-Upgrades.html)
>
> On 09.08.2012, at 22:16, Sebastian Cohnen  wrote:
>
>> Hey all,
>>
>> looks like I'm already stuck :-/
>>
>> I'm trying to test the upgrade on a stage cluster (with 2 nodes). What I did 
>> so far:
>> \* downloaded 1.2
>> \* stopped riak
>> \* backup /var/lib/riak/ring and /etc/riak
>> \* installed 1.2
>> \* changed app.config and vm.args (just node name, ring creation size, config 
>> for our multi-backends)
>> \* started riak again
>>
>> riak-admin status looked fine, ring membership is fine, both nodes answer 
>> requests. As hinted by Jon, I attached to riak console and run 
>> riak\_core\_capability:all(). As far as I can tell, everything looks okay here 
>> too.
>>
>> What is not working is: riak-admin transfers. It is not working on both 
>> nodes. For the state situation this is not a big deal, for production this 
>> would be a potential problem.
>>
>> I've pasted the output of "riak\_core\_capability:all()." and command output 
>> of riak-admin transfers here: https://gist.github.com/3307714
>>
>> Is there anything I can do about that?
>>
>>
>> Best
>>
>> Sebastian
>>
>>
>> PS: What's interesting is that I think that I saw a similar behavior while 
>> trying to upgrade to 1.1.4 a few days ago. I have to double check that 
>> though.
>>
>> On 09.08.2012, at 14:08, Sebastian Cohnen  wrote:
>>
>>> I'm actually thinking about taking the risk. We only have a small 3-node 
>>> cluster with ~50GB of data with relatively little traffic (and we don't 
>>> have any 2i, nor do we use search or MR).
>>>
>>> I'll backup the data files, the ring state and everything else I find and 
>>> give it a try. If anything strange happens, we roll back and do the 
>>> additional 1.1.4 step.
>>>
>>> Thanks for the information and help so far!
>>>
>>> On 08.08.2012, at 19:57, Jon Meredith  wrote:
>>>
>>>> Only test coverage. We didn't run direct testing to 0.14.2 - we also 
>>>> deliberately made the decision not to remove some older code that would 
>>>> have broken 0.14 upgrades until the next major release.
>>>>
>>>> It all depends on your risk tolerance - we didn't make any file format 
>>>> changes to bitcask so your data should be safe. If you wanted to try it, 
>>>> I would take a backup of the ring directory in case you had to downgrade 
>>>> the node again for any reason.
>>>>
>>>> On the newly upgraded node you could run riak\_core\_capability:all(). on 
>>>> the riak console, that would double-check that the settings matched the 
>>>> required rolling upgrade settings, and make sure you do a diff of your 
>>>> app.config/vm.args against the new package to check there aren't any 
>>>> settings missing.
>>>>
>>>> Jon.
>>>>
>>>> On Wed, Aug 8, 2012 at 11:39 AM, Sebastian Cohnen 
>>>>  wrote:
>>>> I'm curious, are there any special reasons for your recommendation?
>>>>
>>>> On 08.08.2012, at 19:38, Jon Meredith  wrote:
>>>>
>>>>> I would recommend going 0.14.2 -> 1.1.4 -> 1.2, making sure you follow 
>>>>> the pre-1.0 upgrade instructions on 
>>>>> http://wiki.basho.com/Rolling-Upgrades.html
>>>>>
>>>>> Once you do the upgrade from 1.2, the capabilities system will kick in 
>>>>> and the old legacy settings mentioned in the rolling upgrade will no 
>>>>> longer be used (if you need to you can override them with the new 
>>>>> capability override mechanism).
>>>>>
>>>>> Jon.
>>>>>
>>>>> On Wed, Aug 8, 2012 at 10:23 AM, Nathan Wilken  wrote:
>>>>> Is an intermediate upgrade recommended? 0.14.2 --> 1.0/1.1 --> 1.2?
>>>>>
>>>>>
>>>>>
>>>>> From: riak-users-boun...@lists.basho.com 
>>>>> [riak-users-boun...@lists.basho.com] on behalf of Sean Cribbs 
>>>>> [s...@basho.com]
>>>>> Sent: Wednesday, August 08, 2012 6:35 AM
>>>>> To: Sebastian Cohnen
>>>>> Cc: riak-users@lists.basho.com
>>>>> Subject: Re: Upgrading 0.14.2 cluster to 1.2
>>>>>
>>>>> Sebastian,
>>>>>
>>>>> While it might work, we did not specifically test upgrades from 0.14.2, 
>>>>> only 1.0 and 1.1.
>>>>>
>>>>> On Wed, Aug 8, 2012 at 7:08 AM, Sebastian Cohnen 
>>>>>  wrote:
>>>>> Hey list,
>>>>>
>>>>> is it a good idea to upgrade a small (3 node) cluster straight to 1.2 
>>>>> from 0.14.2. Especially with riak's 1.2 capabilities negotiation, it 
>>>>> feels like the upgrade process should be much simpler now? We don't do 
>>>>> any M/R jobs currently and we are only using bitcask right now.
>>>>>
>>>>>
>>>>> Best
>>>>>
>>>>> Sebastian
>>>>>
>>>>>
>>>>>
>>>>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>>>>> riak-users mailing list
>>>>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>>>>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>>>>
>>>>>
>>>>>
>>>>> --
>>>>> Sean Cribbs 
>>>>> Software Engineer
>>>>> Basho Technologies, Inc.
>>>>> http://basho.com/
>>>>>
>>>>>
>>>>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>>>>> riak-users mailing list
>>>>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>>>>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>>>>
>>>>>
>>>>>
>>>>>
>>>>> --
>>>>> Jon Meredith
>>>>> Platform Engineering Manager
>>>>> Basho Technologies, Inc.
>>>>> jmered...@basho.com
>>>>>
>>>>
>>>>
>>>>
>>>>
>>>> --
>>>> Jon Meredith
>>>> Platform Engineering Manager
>>>> Basho Technologies, Inc.
>>>> jmered...@basho.com
>>>>
>>>
>>
>
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com



--
Joseph Blomstedt 
Senior Software Engineer
Basho Technologies, Inc.
http://www.basho.com/


-- 
Joseph Blomstedt 
Senior Software Engineer
Basho Technologies, Inc.
http://www.basho.com/

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

