---
title: "Re: Severe problems when adding a new node"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-10-28T17:23:30-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05355"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg05353"
author_name: "David Smith"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-10-28T17:23:30-07:00
---


Hi John, et. al.

On Fri, Oct 28, 2011 at 5:03 PM, John Axel Eriksson  wrote:
>
> I don't want to be too hard on you fine people of Basho and you provide a 
> really great system in Riak and I understand what you're aiming for, but if
> anything as bad as this ever happens in the future you might want to 
> communicate it better and consider pulling the release.

As Kelly mentioned earlier, I am very sorry for the problems you have
experienced. We could have handled the communication of this issue
better. We have been actively investigating it to determine the root
cause. The fix we provided to our customers was a hot-patch and not
fully validated. However, given the concern and severity of the
issue, the patch is available here:

http://dl.dropbox.com/u/2596651/riak\_kv\_bitcask\_backend.beam

(This .beam simply makes drop\_data\_cleanup/3 synchronous -- this bug
was also present in 1.0.0, though obscured by other behaviour)

Moving forward, we are still working out the best way to communicate
these issues. You may have noticed that today’s recap included a list
of important bugs; this is only the first step. We are considering a
mailing list for high-severity issues and RSS feeds for
https://issues.basho.com/ to make it easier to learn of new issues.

Again, we could have done better here and will strive to do so in future.

D.

-- 
Dave Smith
Director, Engineering
Basho Technologies, Inc.
diz...@basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

