---
title: "Re: Issues with Riak Control"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-03-22T10:57:05-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07025"
author_name: "Armon Dadgar"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-03-22T10:57:05-07:00
---


I've seen this happening as well, it seems to have something to do with some 
assets 
not being fully loaded. On very slow connections (e.g. tethered over a phone),
I constantly get redirected to the pjax pages.

Best Regards,

Armon Dadgar

> Message: 10
> Date: Thu, 22 Mar 2012 09:28:08 -0600
> From: Jeffrey Massung 
> To: char...@contentomni.com (mailto:char...@contentomni.com)
> Cc: riak-users  (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)>
> Subject: Re: Issues with Riak Control
> Message-ID: <481dc86e-1692-48e8-98a3-11dba4cc9...@basho.com 
> (mailto:481dc86e-1692-48e8-98a3-11dba4cc9...@basho.com)>
> Content-Type: text/plain; charset="us-ascii"
> 
> Charles, I've emailed you off-list with a whole set of things to test. We 
> have an idea what the problem might be. For posterity, once a solution is 
> arrived at, I'll post it back to the mailing list.
> 
> --
> Jeffrey Massung
> Software Engineer
> j...@basho.com (mailto:j...@basho.com)
> 
> On Mar 21, 2012, at 9:13 PM, char...@contentomni.com 
> (mailto:char...@contentomni.com) wrote:
> 
> > Yes, it does return the css file.
> > 
> > The way I've setup my cluster is that I am using my private ip address 
> > (remember I'm using Rackspace Cloud Servers) for my riak\_core->http setting 
> > in app.config, and I am using my public ip address for the riak\_core->https 
> > setting.
> > 
> > Everything is working ok on the cluster, everything looks ok from 
> > riak-admin status. I just have the problem with riak control.
> > 
> > -----Original Message-----
> > From: "Jeffrey Massung" 
> > Sent: Wednesday, 21 March, 2012 11:59pm
> > To: char...@contentomni.com (mailto:char...@contentomni.com)
> > Cc: "riak-users"  > (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)>
> > Subject: Re: Issues with Riak Control
> > 
> > Charles,
> > 
> > A quick test... on the command prompt, does the following return the CSS 
> > file?
> > 
> > curl -k https://user:pass@localhost:8069/admin/ui/style.css
> > 
> > Note: change the credentials, ip, and port appropriately for your cluster 
> > setup. I'll look at something else for the URL redirection to the template 
> > folder - that shouldn't be happening (obviously).
> > 
> > --
> > Jeffrey Massung
> > Software Engineer
> > j...@basho.com (mailto:j...@basho.com)
> > 
> > On Mar 21, 2012, at 4:32 PM, char...@contentomni.com 
> > (mailto:char...@contentomni.com) wrote:
> > 
> > > I tried Firefox 9, Safari 5, and the latest Chrome. I would hardly 
> > > consider these old browsers. 
> > > 
> > > -----Original Message-----
> > > From: "Jeffrey Massung" 
> > > Sent: Wednesday, 21 March, 2012 11:22pm
> > > To: char...@contentomni.com (mailto:char...@contentomni.com)
> > > Cc: "riak-users"  > > (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)>
> > > Subject: Re: Issues with Riak Control
> > > 
> > > This is very much the behavior of older browsers not loading the CSS 
> > > properly and displaying it. IE7, old versions of FireFox, etc. Have you 
> > > tried Chrome, Safari, a latest FireFox, IE8+, etc?
> > > 
> > > --
> > > Jeffrey Massung
> > > Software Engineer
> > > j...@basho.com (mailto:j...@basho.com)
> > > 
> > > On Mar 21, 2012, at 4:09 PM, char...@contentomni.com 
> > > (mailto:char...@contentomni.com) wrote:
> > > 
> > > > I recently installed a Riak (1.1.1) Cluster on Rackspace Cloud Servers. 
> > > > Everything seems to be working ok.
> > > > 
> > > > I set up the configuration to enable Riak Control. However, I am having 
> > > > a few issues using it.
> > > > 
> > > > As soon as I login in it shows me the home page briefly and then it 
> > > > just displays the following in only text:
> > > > 
> > > > Current Snapshot...
> > > > 
> > > > Your cluster is healthy.
> > > > You currently have...
> > > > 0 Unreachable nodes
> > > > 0 Nodes marked as 'down'
> > > > 0 Nodes experiencing low memory
> > > > Nothing to worry about because Riak is your friend
> > > > Your cluster has problems.
> > > > The following nodes are currently unreachable:
> > > > The following nodes are currently marked as 'down':
> > > > The following nodes are currently experiencing low memory:
> > > > 
> > > > The URL has also changed from https://:8069/admin/ui/index.html 
> > > > to https://:8069/admin/ui/templates/snapshot.pjax. It's like 
> > > > it's forcing some kind of redirection and I don't know why.
> > > > 
> > > > Kindly assist,
> > > > 
> > > > Charles.
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> > > > riak-users mailing list
> > > > riak-users@lists.basho.com (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
> > > > http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> > > > 
> > > 
> > > 
> > 
> > 
> 
> 
> -------------- next part --------------
> An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
> URL: 
> 
> 
> ------------------------------
> 
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> 
> 
> End of riak-users Digest, Vol 32, Issue 40
> \*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*
> 
> 


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

