---
title: "Re: [ANN] Riak CS"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-03-27T18:55:26-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07057"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg07056"
author_name: "Alexander Sicular"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-03-27T18:55:26-07:00
---


Awesome. Grats on the release and all the hard work that went into it. 

1. I heard differing things when I asked in other forums but I wanted to get an 
answer here, does Riak CS support range requests? Aka give me bytes 100-200 
from this 3MB file. 

2. Pricing. Is Riak CS priced like S3 in terms of storage volume, bandwidth and 
lookups?

Thank!
-Alexander


@siculars on twitter
http://siculars.posterous.com

Sent from my iRotaryPhone

On Mar 27, 2012, at 20:54, Mark Phillips  wrote:

> Hi All, 
> 
> I just wanted to take a second and share some details on a new Riak-based 
> product that Basho announced today. 
> 
> Riak, the open source database, has long served as the basis for our 
> commercial offerings. Until this morning, RiakEDS [1] was the only member of 
> that product family, with Multi Data Center Replication being the primary 
> distinguishing feature between stock Riak and the EDS product. 
> 
> Today we introduced something called Riak CS [2], a closed-source product 
> built on top Riak that provides an S3 API. Some of the main features of Riak 
> CS:
> 
> \* S3 REST API Compatibility 
> \* Multi Tenancy 
> \* Pluggable Auth
> \* Large Object Support 
> \* Per-Tenant Usage Visibility (for billing and metering)
> \* Multi Data Center Replication is also part of Riak CS
> 
> Thanks. Let me know if you have any questions. 
> 
> Mark 
> 
> [1] http://basho.com/products/riak-enterprise/
> [2] http://basho.com/products/riakcs/
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

