---
title: "Re: C Client?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-04-13T15:15:44-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07202"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg07201"
author_name: "Brian Knox"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-04-13T15:15:44-07:00
---


Andres -

The short of it is I'm using gcc version 4.7.0 on linux. The other runtime
environment would be whatever is on Centos 6.2 (I believe that's gcc 4.4.6
off the top of my head). I'm not sure I'll be on the computer much this
weekend, but send any questions for information you'd need my way and if I
don't get to them before Monday, I'll catch up with you then.

Thank you for the offer!
Brian

I've got to head out and I'm not sure how much I'll be on the computer

On Fri, Apr 13, 2012 at 5:16 PM, Andres Jaan Tack  wrote:

> If you'd like, I will write a C wrapper around 
> riak-cpp,
> obviously itself written for C++. Actually, in the interest of getting my
> code into more hands, I will help you in any number of ways (e.g. provide
> an implementation of Riak/PB) if you can specify your compiler and/or
> runtime constraints in more detail.
>
> Let me know.
>
> --
> Andres
>
> 2012/4/13 Brian Knox 
>
>> I'm extremely interested in evaluating Riak for the back end of a project
>> I'm currently working on. However, there's one major hurdle - there
>> doesn't appear to be a supported C client driver, which I absolutely need
>> do to some integration work I need to do. I found one C driver project on
>> github, but it doesn't appear to be production ready and looks more like an
>> experiment (no offense to the author!). To be clear - when I say "C
>> client" I'd like to use the protobuf interface, and not the HTTP rest api
>> (for performance reasons).
>>
>> So first, I'd like to just +1 any previous requests for a C driver.
>>
>> Secondly - for my particular needs, I really only need insert ability (I
>> don't need to query from C) - since this is a much smaller subset of the
>> problem of a full fledged client library, if there's any available
>> information that would be helpful for someone writing a C library for
>> inserting into Riak via it's protobuf interface, I'm grateful for any links
>> and pointers.
>>
>> Thank you!
>> Brian
>>
>>
>>
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>
>>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

