---
title: "Re: [ANN] Wiki reorganization"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-09-09T07:52:52-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04638"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04637"
author_name: "Jonathan Langevin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-09-09T07:52:52-07:00
---


Sounds exciting, this was a much-needed change!\*

 
 Jonathan Langevin
Systems Administrator
Loom Inc.
Wilmington, NC: (910) 241-0433 - jlange...@loomlearning.com -
www.loomlearning.com - Skype: intel352
\*


On Fri, Sep 9, 2011 at 10:47 AM, Sean Cribbs  wrote:

> Riak users,
>
> Since late June, the other Developer Advocates and I have been quietly
> working on a huge reorganization of the Riak wiki. We intend to publish
> this new organization today. The reorganization had these goals:
>
> 1. Feel more organized and more like a technical manual, less like a
> smattering of loosely-related articles.
> 2. Deal with the sidebar explosion problem. The tree was getting too
> long and too wide.
> 3. Have clear places for new content and clear separation of purpose
> for the sections.
> 4. Become a central place for Basho software documentation that is not
> just Riak. This started with the addition of Webmachine.
>
> To achieve this goal, we have deepened the structure of the wiki such that
> pages are better logically grouped. Sections include "breadcrumbs" above the
> main article title so that you can tell where you are, while the sidebar
> will only have links pertinent to that section. We have broken the Riak
> documentation into four primary sections:
>
> - \*Installation. \*As before, this covers how to install Riak and/or
> Erlang on your favorite platform.
> - \*Concepts\*. This is most of the content of "How Things Work", but
> splits it out to focus on \*conceptual\* items around Riak, removing how
> to develop against it or operate it in production. There are a number of 
> new
> pages in this section that cover some items that were spread thinly about
> before.
> - \*Developers\*. This section mostly contains client drivers and the
> descriptions of the client APIs.
> - \*Operations.\* This section contains all the previous "Best Practices"
> things plus items on configuration, command line tools, and capacity
> planning.
>
> We hope this new organization will be helpful and not too disorienting.
> Once we have published the new organization, we'll start adding content
> pertinent to the 1.0 release. There are still a number of rough edges which
> we will address along the way -- documentation is never finished -- and we
> will also likely address the visual aspects with some help from our UI
> designer John Newman. As always, we appreciate pull-requests to correct
> errors and add new content.
>
> Cheers,
>
> --
> Sean Cribbs 
> Developer Advocate
> Basho Technologies, Inc.
> http://www.basho.com/
>
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

