---
title: "Re:"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-01-24T14:03:09-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg02105"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg02104"
author_name: "Sebastjan Trepca"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-01-24T14:03:09-08:00
---


Cool. Thanks for a quick reply.


Any estimates when faceting will be supported?


Sebastjan
On Monday, 24 January 2011 at 21:56, Rusty Klophaus wrote:

> Hi Sebastjan,
> 
> 
> Thanks! To run down the list:
> 
> 
> - Faceting: Faceting is not supported at this time.
> 
> 
> - Float Fields / Date Fields: Riak Search treats all fields as text 
> (comparisons happen lexicographically), so you would need to encode and/or 
> pad Date and Float fields. ie: Transform a float of 79.99 (for example) into 
> "0000000079.99". Transform dates into "YYYY-MM-DD-HH-MM-SS" in GMT, etc.
> 
> 
> - Multi-Value Fields: Multi-valued fields are supported, but are merged 
> together when outputting in Solr. This may or may not be what your 
> application expects.
> 
> 
> - Sorting: Unfortunately, there is currently an open issue that effectively 
> breaks sorting: https://issues.basho.com/show\_bug.cgi?id=867. Depending on 
> the size of your expected result sets, you may be able to get by sorting the 
> results in your application rather than in Search.
> 
> 
> - Fast Updates: Fast updates are absolutely supported! Riak Search was 
> designed for real-time indexing from the ground up. (ie: No lag between 
> indexing a document and being able to search on it.)
> 
> 
> - Stemming: Stemming/unstemming is not supported out of the box. You could, 
> however, write a custom analyzer to do this or leverage an existing Lucene 
> analyzer. 
> 
> 
> Best,
> Rusty
> 
> On Mon, Jan 24, 2011 at 4:17 PM, Sebastjan Trepca  wrote:
> 
> > Hey, 
> > 
> > 
> > Congrats on new release!
> > 
> > 
> > I'm considering porting our search engine to riak-search. We're currently 
> > using Solr and are quite happy with it except for indexing times where riak 
> > could probably be much faster.
> > 
> > 
> > Our requirements:
> > - faceting
> > - float fields
> > - multi-value fields
> > - date fields 
> > - sorting by floats and dates 
> > - fast updates
> > - dynamic fields 
> > - stemmed/unstemmed string fields (useful to get good data from faceting)
> > 
> > 
> > AFAIK you support dynamic fields, faceting and date fields. What about 
> > other points?
> > 
> > 
> > Thanks!
> > 
> > 
> > Sebastjan
> > 
> > 
> > --
> > http://ly.st
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> > riak-users mailing list
> > riak-users@lists.basho.com
> > http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> > 
> > 
> > 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 




\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

