---
title: "RE: Cluster on startup."
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-11-07T03:53:30-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg09223"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg09228"
author_name: "Kevin Burton"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-11-07T03:53:30-08:00
---


I started reading the documentation on Zookeeper but it will take some time
for me to know the ins and outs of this service. Would you be able to
jump-start my learning curve so that I could perform this simple operation.
Right now I only want 3-4 riak instances on the same machine. From there I
am hoping I can extrapolate to a "real" production cluster. 

 

From: Colin Alston [mailto:colin.als...@praekelt.com] 
Sent: Wednesday, November 07, 2012 3:34 AM
To: Reid Draper
Cc: Kevin Burton; riak-users@lists.basho.com
Subject: Re: Cluster on startup.

 

On 7 November 2012 05:36, Reid Draper  wrote:

 

On Nov 6, 2012, at 5:43 PM, Kevin Burton  wrote:





This is probably an FAQ but I was unable to find an answer so hopefully
there will be some patient people.

 

The "Quick Start" builds a simple cluster all on the same machine (called
dev1, dev2, and dev3). It assigns the ports, IP addresses, etc. I would like
to do something similar but I would like the cluster to startup
automatically. What do I need to add to the configuration file so that all
of the joins etc. happen on startup? This would be a Ubuntu Server if it
makes any difference.

 

There is no configuration option to do this. However, once the nodes have
been joined to a cluster, they'll

remain part of the same cluster even if they're restarted. Hope this helps.

 

In addition to that you can use something like Zookeeper to automate a node
joining the cluster on initial spin-up if you're doing auto provisioning of
some kind. 

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

