---
title: "Re: i2 roadmap?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-11-16T09:56:49-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05603"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg05602"
author_name: "Rusty Klophaus"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-11-16T09:56:49-08:00
---


Hi Elias,

Thank you, this is excellent feedback. I am literally minutes away
from sending out an email to this group soliciting 2i feedback to
help us focus our efforts.

We have a rough idea internally of what we would like to do going forward,
but I'd prefer to gather feedback first before saying too much more.

Thanks,
Rusty

On Wed, Nov 16, 2011 at 12:44 PM, Elias Levy wrote:

> Is there some roadmap for 2i features?
>
> We are currently using search for indexing as we need to perform compound
> queries. After some testing I found that if we could use i2 we probably
> see 4-5x improvements in insert throughput and and 1.5-2x in querying
> times, depending on the query. We can work around the lack of an
> intersection operation (AND), by implementing the filtering in a MR phase.
> My testing shows that is sufficiently performant in many cases. But we
> are in a bind by the lack of a union operation (OR). Executing multiple
> individual exact matches introduces too much latency given that we may have
> hundreds of exact matches in a single query.
>
> A more general solution to the lack of a union operation would be to allow
> multiple "inputs" statements to a MR job, although the the job may have to
> perform some deduplication or just accept dups, depending on how the inputs
> are structured.
>
> If would also be rather handy if the key filter language could be applied
> to matching secondary indexes.
>
> Elias
>
>
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>


-- 
Rusty Klophaus (@rustyio)
\*Basho Technologies, Inc.\*
www.basho.com
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

