---
title: "Re: Updates to various Riak-related projects"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-04-03T14:00:23-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07123"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg07122"
author_name: "Mark Phillips"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-04-03T14:00:23-07:00
---


Awesome stuff, Jon. Thanks for the updates and the code!

Mark

On Tue, Apr 3, 2012 at 2:24 PM, Jon Brisbin  wrote:

> I hope everyone who attended Erlang Factory learned a lot and had fun. I'm
> bummed I missed it. :/ Ah well!
>
> I spent some time recently fixing a couple bugs that were hanging out in
> some projects of mine that are Riak-related. Mostly I wanted to freshen
> them and update them to use the latest riak\_core. They include example apps
> that are basically my own notebooks on how to invoke a riak\_core vnode
> using various methods:
>
> SockJS (using Cowboy) -> riak\_core:
> https://github.com/jbrisbin/sockjs-riak\_core-vnode-dispatcher
>
> Misultin (plain HTTP, no websockets) -> riak\_core:
> https://github.com/jbrisbin/misultin-riak-core-vnode-dispatcher
>
> RabbitMQ/AMQP -> riak\_core:
> https://github.com/jbrisbin/rabbitmq-riak\_core-vnode-dispatcher
>
> I've done some preliminary load testing of the HTTP-related dispatchers
> and they can really take a lot of punishment. I was running out of
> resources on my box to throw at a two-process riak\_core ring that were
> load-balancing up to 1,000 simultaneous requests across all available
> vnodes in that cluster. I killed one of the processes during the test and
> lost one round of requests (those that were actively connected to that node
> when I killed it) but the other 10's of thousands went through without a
> hiccup.
>
> These examples are very simplistic. One could extend them and implement
> handoff and coverage functionality, which would be really cool to have in a
> web app.
>
>
> Thanks!
>
> Jon Brisbin
> http://about.me/jonbrisbin
>
>
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

