---
title: "Re: riak_search: custom extractor syntax"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-07-19T10:40:49-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04032"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04028"
author_name: "Greg Pascale"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-07-19T10:40:49-07:00
---


I've been debugging through the riak code, and it looks like the
riak\_search\_js\_extract process is not running, so it's not even getting to
the point of executing my JS. Has this feature ever worked?

=ERROR REPORT==== 19-Jul-2011::10:25:24 ===
problem invoking hook riak\_search\_kv\_hook:precommit -> exit:{noproc,
 {gen\_server,
 call,

[riak\_search\_js\_extract,
 reserve\_vm,
 infinity]}}
[{gen\_server,call,3},
 {riak\_kv\_js\_manager,blocking\_dispatch,4},
 {riak\_search\_kv\_hook,run\_extract,3},
 {riak\_search\_kv\_hook,make\_indexed\_doc,4},
 {riak\_search\_kv\_hook,index\_object,2},
 {riak\_search\_kv\_hook,precommit,1},
 {riak\_kv\_put\_fsm,invoke\_hook,4},
 {riak\_kv\_put\_fsm,precommit,2}]

-Greg


On Mon, Jul 18, 2011 at 6:22 PM, Greg Pascale  wrote:

> Hi,
>
> I'm trying to use a custom extractor, but I can't for the life of me seem
> to get the syntax right. Even the simplest thing I can think to try won't
> work.
>
> I've tried setting the rs\_extractfun property as described in the
> documentation - both of these methods
>
>
> - {jsanon, {Bucket, Key}}, where Bucket and Key name a Riak object that
> contains the source of a Javascript function to call for extraction.
> - {jsanon, Source}, where Source is the source of a Javascript function
> to call for extraction.
>
> > Client:set\_bucket(<<"extractTest">>, [{rs\_extractfun, {jsanon,
> <<"function(){return{'name':'greg', 'login':'gpascale'};}">>}}]).
> > Client:set\_bucket(<<"extractTest">>, [{rs\_extractfun, {jsanon,
> {<<"extractors">>, <<"myextractor">>}}}]).
>
> but neither of these work.
>
> Can somebody point out where I'm going wrong?
>
> --
> Greg
> Clipboard  is hiring
> !
>
>


-- 
Greg
Clipboard  is hiring
!
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

