---
title: "Re: Riak scenarios"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-08-04T11:14:19-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04229"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04222"
author_name: "Jonathan Langevin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-08-04T11:14:19-07:00
---


We're building an application right now, that will provide analytics/reports
to customers, using Riak as the storage solution.
I actually spoke with Basho prior to committing to Riak, explained that we
needed to be able to scale well with this solution, that it was geared to
providing analytics & reports, etc, and they (Basho) supported this effort
using Riak.

Our application processes incoming data, transforms it into Riak-friendly
objects, performs all necessary calculations (and stores the values) during
transformation, and then stores into Riak. Maybe this process is why Basho
didn't say "don't use Riak".

I can totally see that attempting to store straight SQL data into Riak and
then running ad-hoc queries would be quite inappropriate, but otherwise I'm
uncertain how Riak wouldn't suffice as a solution. As we're pre-emptively
storing what we would normally query "ad-hoc", that's not an issue for our
product.


In case someone is unsure of how I'm defining data analytics:
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data\_analytics

We're essentially building a "business intelligence" product for
universities.


\*Jonathan Langevin
Systems Administrator
Loom Inc.
Wilmington, NC: (910) 241-0433 - jlange...@loomlearning.com -
www.loomlearning.com - Skype: intel352\*



On Thu, Aug 4, 2011 at 11:35 AM, Jeremiah Peschka <
jeremiah.pesc...@gmail.com> wrote:

> When I asked phark for such a document, he said:
>
> So, here is what we generally caution \*against\* using Riak for:
>
> 1) It's not a graph database
> 2) Time Series apps (it's doable but not optimal)
> 2) Stuff that is analytics-heavy or requires a lot of adhoc queries.
>
>
> It'd be nice to see examples of how other people are using Riak to build
> out their environment.
>
> ---
> Jeremiah Peschka
> Founder, Brent Ozar PLF, LLC
>
> On Aug 4, 2011, at 7:33 AM, Jonathan Langevin wrote:
>
> It would be great to see Riak configuration & use scenarios, available
> online (not just buried in the list somewhere).
>
> One such scenario that I'd be interested in seeing, is a setup where you
> have a Riak cluster with a specific node that is used for all reads/writes
> of an application.
> The idea is to ensure that the data is always online (via cluster), but
> also ensure that you always have the latest version of your data (specific
> single node read/write).
> If this primary node goes down, then just switch the application to a new
> primary node. That could occur via application logic or other solution that
> exists between application and riak cluster.
>
> To represent such a scenario as I've requested, someone would post their
> suggested/recommended Riak config, client read config, client write config,
> and any other relevant information, especially pros/cons and if they have
> in fact used this configuration before (with[out] success).
>
>
> It would be good to have a scenario wishlist, where someone lists what they
> would like to see a usable configuration, which others can respond to with
> their configuration / use case.
>
>
> If Basho/Riak were interested in providing such a function to the
> community, maybe to make this available sooner than later, it could be
> implemented via the Wiki, with some basic guidelines?
>
> This idea wouldn't need to exist exactly as I've presented it, just
> something that achieves a similar goal would be quite useful.
>
>
> Jonathan Langevin
> Systems Administrator
> Loom Inc.
> Wilmington, NC: (910) 241-0433 - jlange...@loomlearning.com -
> www.loomlearning.com - Skype: intel352
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

