---
title: "Re: Javascript swapout"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-12-02T16:24:01-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01704"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg01703"
author_name: "Kevin Smith"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-12-02T16:24:01-08:00
---


0mq is definitely on my list of tech to evaluate when we get around to 
implementing this feature. I've heard the Erlang bindings are pretty good which 
is definitely a plus.

--Kevin
On Dec 2, 2010, at 7:16 PM, Greg Steffensen wrote:

> Have you guys seen the zeromq library? It's a fast, brokerless message 
> passing library (the sender can talk directly to the recipient, without a 
> message queue server in the middle). That plus protocol buffers might be an 
> easy way to call out to arbitrary code for mapreduce work, and you'd get the 
> ability to make the recipient local or remote. Their user guide actually 
> suggests that it was inspired by erlang.
> 
> Greg
> 
> On Thu, Dec 2, 2010 at 7:04 PM, Kevin Smith  wrote:
> Unfortunately that's not really a possibility. We selected Spidermonkey 
> because it's lightweight and designed for embedded use cases. To do the same 
> with Rhino would require embedding the JVM which would be problematic to 
> embed in the same way.
> 
> I have thought about implementing an external interface for map and reduce 
> phases similar to Hadoop's streams interface so users could perform maps and 
> reduces using whatever technology is appropriate for them. Would this work 
> for your use case?
> 
> --Kevin
> On Dec 2, 2010, at 6:35 PM, Hec H wrote:
> 
> > Just wondering what the level of embed spidermonkey JS engine is within 
> > riak. Not too sure on the base code or related to C but are their 
> > opportinites via Java-Erlang interface for a Rhino JS/Java engine.
> >
> >
> > Thanks
> >
> > Hec
> >
> > \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> > riak-users mailing list
> > riak-users@lists.basho.com
> > http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> 
> 
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> 
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

