---
title: "Re: mapred with erlang and mapred_funterm() as strfun"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-07-09T04:31:48-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07881"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg07879"
author_name: "Sean Cribbs"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-07-09T04:31:48-07:00
---


Hello Boris,

We do not advise using the strfun functionality in production, for obvious
security and stability reasons. That said, you can enable it on all of your
nodes by adding this setting to the 'riak\_kv' section of your app.config
file: {allow\_strfun, true}

Cheers,

On Mon, Jul 9, 2012 at 6:41 AM, Ilyushonak Barys  wrote:

> Hello, \*\*\*\*
>
> \*\* \*\*
>
> Could you please shed light on howto use strfun type in mapred query?\*\*\*\*
>
> \*\* \*\*
>
> As I see, strfun was introduces as a solution for inability to use
> anonymous functions in Erlang mapred syntax (
> http://lists.basho.com/pipermail/riak-users\_lists.basho.com/2010-September/001918.html
> ).\*\*\*\*
>
> I have tried the following code:\*\*\*\*
>
> \*\* \*\*
>
> {ok, C} = riak:client\_connect('riak@1.2.3.4').\*\*\*\*
>
> MapFun = "fun(Input, undefined, none) -> [{BinData, ObjStatus} ||
> {BinData, ObjStatus} <- [riak\_object:get\_value(Input)], ObjStatus == 1]
> end.".\*\*\*\*
>
> C:mapred(<<"test\_bucket">>, [{map, {strfun, MapFun}, none, true}]).\*\*\*\*
>
> \*\* \*\*
>
> But with no luck. \*\*\*\*
>
> I got on Riak cluster:\*\*\*\*
>
> [error] gen\_fsm <0.30923.28> in state executing terminated with reason:
> {error,{error,{badfun,#Fun},[{riak\_kv\_mapper,run\_map,9},{riak\_kv\_mapper,'-do\_map/2-fun-0-',9},{lists,foldl,3},{riak\_kv\_mapper,do\_map,2},{gen\_fsm,handle\_msg,7},{proc\_lib,init\_p\_do\_apply,3}]}}
> \*\*\*\*
>
> [error] CRASH REPORT Process <0.30923.28> with 0 neighbours crashed with
> reason:
> {error,{error,{badfun,#Fun},[{riak\_kv\_mapper,run\_map,9},{riak\_kv\_mapper,'-do\_map/2-fun-0-',9},{lists,foldl,3},{riak\_kv\_mapper,do\_map,2},{gen\_fsm,handle\_msg,7},{proc\_lib,init\_p\_do\_apply,3}]}}
> \*\*\*\*
>
> [error] Supervisor luke\_phase\_sup had child undefined started with
> {luke\_phase,start\_link,undefined} at <0.30923.28> exit with reason
> {error,{error,{badfun,#Fun},[{riak\_kv\_mapper,run\_map,9},{riak\_kv\_mapper,'-do\_map/2-fun-0-',9},{lists,foldl,3},{riak\_kv\_mapper,do\_map,2},{gen\_fsm,handle\_msg,7},{proc\_lib,init\_p\_do\_apply,3}]}}
> in context child\_terminated\*\*\*\*
>
> \*\* \*\*
>
> Please, advice.\*\*\*\*
>
> \*\* \*\*
>
> PS. I use 3 node cluster, and my client runs on separate machine. I have
> tried the code above with local\_client on riak node and it works well.\*\*\*\*
>
> \*\* \*\*
>
> Regards, \*\*\*\*
>
> Boris\*\*\*\*
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>
>
>
> The information contained in this message may be privileged and conf
> idential and protected from disclosure. If you are not the original
> intended recipient, you are hereby notified that any review,
> retransmission, dissemination, or other use of, or taking of any action in
> reliance upon, this information is prohibited. If you have received this
> communication in error, please notify the sender immediately by replying to
> this message and delete it from your computer. Thank you for your
> cooperation. Troika Dialog, Russia.
>
> If you need assistance please contact our Contact Center (+7495) 258 0500or 
> go to
> www.troika.ru/eng/Contacts/system.wbp
>
>
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>


-- 
Sean Cribbs 
Software Engineer
Basho Technologies, Inc.
http://basho.com/
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

