---
title: "Re: Absolute consistency"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-01-11T08:57:10-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06237"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06236"
author_name: "Vishal Shah"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-01-11T08:57:10-08:00
---


To add to Ian's comment, for me personally, this specific characteristic is in 
fact a very important distinguishing feature of Riak vs other scalable KV 
systems. To me, this is what separates 

My understanding is that Riak borrows this from Dynamo which talks about 
"decentralization" - master nodes often times are a cause of bottlenecks and/or 
single point of failure for certain operations.

Vishal

On Jan 11, 2012, at 8:39 AM, Ian Plosker wrote:

> Les,
> 
> In Riak, there is no single primary copy considered the canonical version. 
> For each key, there will be N (3 by default) partitions responsible for 
> storing the associated value. In effect, there are N primaries for any key. 
> This is how Riak makes its availability guarantees, as well as why "absolute 
> consistency" is difficult.
> 
> -- 
> Ian Plosker 
> Developer Advocate
> Basho Technologies, Inc.
> On Tuesday, January 10, 2012 at 10:09 PM, Les Mikesell wrote:
> 
>> On Tue, Jan 10, 2012 at 8:52 PM, Justin Sheehy  wrote:
>>> 
>>> On Jan 10, 2012, at 9:42 PM, Les Mikesell wrote:
>>> 
>>>> How do things like mongo and elasticsearch manage atomic operations
>>>> while still being redundant?
>>> 
>>> Most such systems use some variant of primary copy replication, also known 
>>> as master/slave replication.
>>> 
>>> That approach can provide consistency, but has much weaker availability 
>>> properties.
>> 
>> Doesn't riak need some kind of partition owner/master concept to
>> control migration? And if it has that, why can't the client request
>> that an operation happens on the partition owner/master first for
>> things that need consistency?
>> 
>> --
>> Les Mikesell
>> lesmikes...@gmail.com
>> 
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> 
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

