---
title: "Re: Setting up a Riak + Mongrel2 Stack"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-08-24T09:06:59-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04449"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04447"
author_name: "Sean Cribbs"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-08-24T09:06:59-07:00
---


I think at the current time, setting up Mongrel2 as a front-end to Riak is a
bad idea. For one, if you're just looking for a load-balancer, there are
other well-tested existing solutions. Also, I have attempted to set up
Mongrel2 in front of some simple Ruby processes and some things that Riak
supports (e.g. chunked-encoding uploads) simply don't work. If you are
willing to downgrade your HTTP capabilities, and you want to have an
application between your front-end and Riak, then feel free to use it.

On Wed, Aug 24, 2011 at 11:38 AM, Jonathan Langevin <
jlange...@loomlearning.com> wrote:

> I dunno about mongrel, but I know some of the guys at basho have personally
> used a proxy in front of Riak (Matt Heitzenroder is one that's mentioned it
> before, I've CC'd him).
>
> My thought is that if you can find out the general configuration method of
> how to set up a proxy in front of Riak (such as how it may differ from a
> typical proxy, if there's any special headers you have to pass, what
> settings to apply regarding caching, etc), you could then take that info to
> the Mongrel community and get some specific help there for implementing the
> proxy configuration with the general information you've gleamed from the
> Basho guys.
>
> 
> \* Jonathan Langevin
> Systems Administrator
> Loom Inc.
> Wilmington, NC: (910) 241-0433 - jlange...@loomlearning.com -
> www.loomlearning.com - Skype: intel352 \*
>
>
>
> On Tue, Aug 23, 2011 at 5:28 PM, trevor stanhope wrote:
>
>> exactly. I'm looking to setup mongrel2 as front-end to a Riak kvs.
>>
>>
>> On Tue, 2011-08-23 at 14:25 -0400, Jonathan Langevin wrote:
>> > Is your intention to use mongrel as a proxy for Riak?
>> >
>> >
>> >
>> > Jonathan Langevin
>> > Systems Administrator
>> >
>> > Loom Inc.
>> > Wilmington, NC: (910) 241-0433
>> > - jlange...@loomlearning.com - www.loomlearning.com - Skype: intel352
>> >
>> >
>> >
>> > On Thu, Aug 18, 2011 at 2:01 AM, trevor stanhope
>> >  wrote:
>> > Hey, I've been probing around for any existing examples of a
>> > Riak +
>> > Mongrel2 stack being deployed and haven't had any luck. I'm
>> > not familiar
>> > with Mongrel2 but it was recommended to me and I'm very
>> > interested in
>> > deploying on that platform. What recommendations or who would
>> > be best to
>> > speak with on that subject?
>> >
>> > Best Regards,
>> > Trev Stanhope
>> >
>> >
>> > \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> > riak-users mailing list
>> > riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> >
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>> >
>>
>>
>>
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>


-- 
Sean Cribbs 
Developer Advocate
Basho Technologies, Inc.
http://www.basho.com/
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

