---
title: "Re: Bucket naming and organizing conventions"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-12-08T16:03:04-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01758"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg01757"
author_name: "Alexander Sicular"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-12-08T16:03:04-08:00
---


Ya, I would do appname\_bucket just for legibility. That said, your application 
code will have to control access to bucket/keys. You could put app specific 
values anywhere, ie. bucket, key, headers, value. But I think the bucket would 
be a good place. Just remember there is no riak specific security. So any code 
that can send requests to riak can delete stuff. Keep that in mind. With the 
new stuff in 0.14 you should really think about overloading the namespace 
(buckets and keys) to get the most out of key selection for m/r's. 

Best,

-Alexander Sicular

@siculars

On Dec 8, 2010, at 6:06 PM, Jeremiah Peschka wrote:

> Currently Riak is not designed as a multi-tenancy solution. You've hit on the 
> best way, AFAIK, to do this: bucket names as [APPNAME]\_[BUCKETNAME]. It will 
> certainly save you hardware costs over having one Riak cluster per 
> application, although I don't know what the performance implications of this 
> might be - MapReduce might get a bit slow if you have a large number of 
> applications with a large number of buckets and a large number keys (100 apps 
> with 10 with 1000 keys is 1,000,000). This problem, admittedly, will go away 
> in Riak 0.14 with the improvements in MapReduce to filter keys by 
> bucket-specific.
> 
> Hopefully someone who has built a number of applications on top of Riak can 
> chime in on their real-world experience.
> 
> Jeremiah Peschka
> Microsoft SQL Server MVP
> MCITP: Database Developer, DBA
> 
> 
> On Wed, Dec 8, 2010 at 11:24 AM, S.A. Kiehn  wrote:
> I recently started looking into Riak and like many others I have relational 
> DB block. My questions are regarding bucket naming and organizing per 
> application. I have seen examples where the bucket name is something like 
> "articles". My assumption is that is just an example and that real world 
> naming would be something that qualifies the bucket some more: 
> myapp\_articles. So if another app that is using Riak has an articles object 
> then the bucket would be "anudderapp\_articles". Is this the way this should 
> work to separate apps, or am I not understanding something basic.
> 
> Thanks, Scott
> 
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> 
> 
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

