---
title: "Re: Substring Search"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-03-25T20:56:37-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07044"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg07043"
author_name: "Hursh Prasad"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-03-25T20:56:37-07:00
---


Yes I would like a similar setup as well and checked into ElasticSearch, I
am searching on short phrases less then 200 characters I do not want to
miss trailing words in compound words like ball in basketball.

It seems the only option I have is SQL databases that support regular
expressions (please correct me if I am wrong).

I think that is unfortunate, I prefer the performant index/querying,
replication ease, and non-impedance of JSON document store capability of
NoSql db's.

Hursh

On Sun, Mar 25, 2012 at 10:03 PM, John D. Rowell  wrote:

> We use ElasticSearch for everything search related, even when the
> persistence layer happens in Riak, Redis or MongoDB. If you're using JSON
> to store your Riak documents it's just a matter of storing the documents on
> ElasticSearch also (also HTTP/JSON, with a REST API) and you get fully
> clustered, sharded, cloud-aware, extremely fast Lucene-compatible searches
> with very little effort.
>
> -jd
>
> Em 25 de março de 2012 17:28, Hursh Prasad 
> escreveu:
>
>> Yeah I am talking Riak Search, I did not see anything or any approaches.
>>
>> It seems like there isn't a good NoSQL solution out there.
>>
>> On Sun, Mar 25, 2012 at 4:17 PM, Erik Søe Sørensen wrote:
>>
>>> Are you talking about plain Riak, or using secondary indexes, or of Riak
>>> Search?
>>>
>>> The question makes most sense in context of Riak Search.
>>> If the page
>>> http://wiki.basho.com/Riak-Search---Querying.html
>>> is up-to-date, then the answer appears to be 'no' - wildcards (\*,?) are
>>> supported, but
>>> "Currently, the wildcard must come at the end of the term in both
>>> cases."
>>> i.e. only prefix queries can be used, not queries of arbitrary
>>> substrings.
>>>
>>> Trusting that someone will correct me if I'm wrong,
>>>
>>> /Erik
>>>
>>>
>>> Mobile: + 45 2636 1755 | Skype: eriksoesorensen | Twitter: @eriksoe
>>> Trifork A/S | Margrethepladsen 4 | DK- 8000 Aarhus C | Phone : +45
>>> 8732 8787 | www.trifork.com
>>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>>> From: riak-users-boun...@lists.basho.com [
>>> riak-users-boun...@lists.basho.com] On Behalf Of Hursh Prasad [
>>> hu...@theeggofcolumbus.com]
>>> Sent: 25 March 2012 22:04
>>> To: riak-users@lists.basho.com
>>> Subject: Re: Welcome to the "riak-users" mailing list
>>>
>>> Does Riak support (or what are the options for) substring search?
>>>
>>> Example "ball" or "bal" in basketball?
>>>
>>> Thanks,
>>> Hursh
>>>
>>
>>
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>
>>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

