---
title: "Re: riak failed to start up"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-08-08T00:53:06-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08213"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg08212"
author_name: "Richard Heycock"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-08-08T00:53:06-07:00
---


Excerpts from Joseph Blomstedt's message of 2012-08-08 16:30:14 +1000:
> The error you're getting is related to "riak\_core\_capability" which
> didn't exist in Riak until Riak 1.2.0. It looks like you somehow ended
> up installing Riak 1.2 RC1, not Riak 1.1.4. Keep in mind that RC1 was
> the first "release candidate" (hence the RC) and there were a total of
> 7 RCs before we release the final version of Riak 1.2. All RCs before
> RC7 had major release blocking bugs. There was a capabilities related
> bug that was fixed in the later RCs, so you're likely hitting a
> capabilities bug that has since been fixed.

Just for the record is that the platform\_\*\_dir stuff in app.config?

rgh

> Please either re-install Riak 1.1.4, or install the now officially
> released Riak 1.2.0. This should hopefully fix your issue.
> 
> Regards,
> Joe
> 
> On Tue, Aug 7, 2012 at 8:12 PM,  
> wrote:
> > Hi Mark,
> > OS - Linux 2.6.32-71.el6.x86\_64 #1 SMPx86\_64 x86\_64 x86\_64 
> > GNU/Linux(centos 64 bit)
> >
> > RIAK\_VERSION="riak (1.2.0rc1 2012-07-13) RedHat x86\_64" its there at 
> > /usr/sbin/riak but I am using riak -1.1.4 ...quite confused ..correct me on 
> > what went wrong ..
> >
> >
> > Thanks
> > Sangeetha
> >
> > -----Original Message-----
> > From: Mark Phillips [mailto:m...@basho.com]
> > Sent: Wednesday, August 08, 2012 4:34 AM
> > To: Pattabi Raman, Sangeetha (Cognizant)
> > Cc: riak-users@lists.basho.com
> > Subject: Re: riak failed to start up
> >
> > Hi Sangeetha,
> >
> > It looks familiar but it's hard to say. Can you share the Riak version? And 
> > what OS you're running?
> >
> > Mark
> >
> > On Tue, Aug 7, 2012 at 4:15 AM,  
> > wrote:
> >> Hi ,
> >>
> >>
> >>
> >> Can any one help me on the start up error ..thx in advance
> >>
> >> [root@CTSINGMRGTO riak]# cat console.log
> >>
> >> 2012-08-07 09:13:54.260 [error] <0.164.0> CRASH REPORT Process
> >> riak\_core\_capability with 0 neighbours exited with reason: no function
> >> clause matching orddict:fetch('riak@127.0.0.1', []) line 72 in
> >> gen\_server:terminate/6 line 747
> >>
> >>
> >>
> >> [root@CTSINGMRGTO riak]# riak start
> >>
> >> Attempting to restart script through sudo -u riak
> >>
> >> /etc/profile: line 31: id: command not found
> >>
> >> /usr/sbin/riak: line 6: uname: command not found
> >>
> >> /usr/sbin/riak: line 6: [: too many arguments
> >>
> >> /usr/sbin/riak: line 30: whoami: command not found
> >>
> >> sudo doesn't appear to be installed and your EUID isn't riak
> >>
> >>
> >>
> >>
> >>
> >> on running as service
> >>
> >>
> >>
> >> [root@CTSINGMRGTO riak]# service riak start
> >>
> >> Starting Riak: Riak failed to start within 15 seconds,
> >>
> >> see the output of 'riak console' for more information.
> >>
> >> If you want to wait longer, set the environment variable
> >>
> >> WAIT\_FOR\_ERLANG to the number of seconds to wait.
> >>
> >> [FAILED]
> >>
> >>
> >>
> >> Thanks & regards
> >>
> >> sangeetha
> >>
> >>
> >>
> >> This e-mail and any files transmitted with it are for the sole use of
> >> the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential and privileged
> >> information. If you are not the intended recipient(s), please reply to
> >> the sender and destroy all copies of the original message. Any
> >> unauthorized review, use, disclosure, dissemination, forwarding,
> >> printing or copying of this email, and/or any action taken in reliance
> >> on the contents of this e-mail is strictly prohibited and may be unlawful.
> >>
> >> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> >> riak-users mailing list
> >> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> >> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> >>
> > This e-mail and any files transmitted with it are for the sole use of the 
> > intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential and privileged 
> > information. If you are not the intended recipient(s), please reply to the 
> > sender and destroy all copies of the original message. Any unauthorized 
> > review, use, disclosure, dissemination, forwarding, printing or copying of 
> > this email, and/or any action taken in reliance on the contents of this 
> > e-mail is strictly prohibited and may be unlawful.
> >
> > \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> > riak-users mailing list
> > riak-users@lists.basho.com
> > http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> 
-- 
[e]: r...@roughage.com.au
[im]: r...@jabber.org

You're worried criminals will continue to penetrate into cyberspace, and
I'm worried complexity, poor design and mismanagement will be there to meet
them - Marcus Ranum

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

