---
title: "Re: Delta updates using pre-commit hooks"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-01-16T06:31:10-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06288"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06285"
author_name: "Mark Steele"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-01-16T06:31:10-08:00
---


I for one would love to see a CRDT-like interface in Riak...

Cheers,

Mark Steele, CISSP, CSM
Bering Media Inc.


On Sat, Jan 14, 2012 at 1:03 PM, Ryan Zezeski  wrote:

> Marek,
>
> You're definitely butting up against the limits of Riak's data model here.
> It sounds like you are looking for something like Redis? E.g. add element
> E to set S. You could probably use statebox [1] and pull some tricks in
> the precommit hook to determine if the incoming client object is the
> initial object or a delta but you would still need to perform a read in the
> hook to get the box, apply the delta, and then return that object from the
> hook. As you said this happens on the coordinator and there is no easy way
> to guarantee this op applies local to the data off the top of my head. At
> least a precommit hook would prevent streaming the object to/from the
> client.
>
> I think what you really want is native support for different data models
> on top of Riak. Internally, we've played around with a CRDT [2] interface
> on top of Riak where instead of sending objects you send operations. This
> is analogous to how Redis works (although the underlying implementation is
> very different given Riak's distributed nature). The trick with a new data
> model is making sure it scales and making sure we understand its
> consistency model.
>
> Riak's pedigree is the key-value model. I'm sure you could hack something
> together on top of Riak's KV model with precommit hooks but you will be
> swimming upstream. That said, we're always looking at new models that
> would compliment our existing key-value model.
>
> -Ryan
>
> [1]: https://github.com/mochi/statebox
>
> [2]: http://hal.archives-ouvertes.fr/inria-00555588/
>
> On Wed, Jan 4, 2012 at 10:11 AM, Marek Zawirski wrote:
>
>> Hi,
>>
>> we are trying use Riak as a storage layer for experimental
>> higher-level data types updated by clients, using a set of
>> well-defined operations. To this end, each data type instance is
>> stored under a single key. One problem with this approach is that
>> after client modifies even a small piece of the data structure, it
>> needs to write (and transfer) the whole data structure back to Riak.
>> We are looking for a way to reduce this overhead by sending just a
>> delta operation, preferably without partitioning the data structure to
>> several keys.
>>
>> One approach we thought about is to perform operations on Riak-side
>> using pre-commit hooks or similar technique. I.e. reconstruct the new
>> value on Riak using original old value + delta send by client. The
>> operations (deltas) we are talking about have necessary properties to
>> ensure convergence. Still, it seems there a couple technical issues
>> involved, we are looking how to solve them:
>> 1) pre-commit API seems to only offer access to the object value
>> passed by client during write and not the old value; I wonder - am I
>> able to read the value from the store in pre-commit hook? In
>> particular, the value previously read by the client writing,
>> identified by version vector?
>> 2) pre-commit hooks are executed on the coordinator node; is there an
>> easy way in Riak to apply operations at data nodes instead?
>>
>> Thanks for any info that can help addressing these issues.
>>
>> Regards,
>> Marek Zawirski
>>
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>
>
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

