---
title: "Re: What is the advantage of using luwak?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-01-25T07:49:52-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg02122"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg02118"
author_name: "Thomas Burdick"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-01-25T07:49:52-08:00
---


It looks like luwak allows you stream data as well instead of just doing a
put or get on the entirety of it. Thats a huge bonus if the files are very
large such as video files.

Tom Burdick

On Tue, Jan 25, 2011 at 8:05 AM, Jeremiah Peschka <
jeremiah.pesc...@gmail.com> wrote:

> As I see it, there are a few advantages -
>
> You get Riak's built-in redundancy. The various chunks of your file will be
> written in multiple locations across your cluster. Even in the event of a
> single server failure, you'll still be able to read data out of your luwak
> cluster.
>
> Performance - I would think that there's a performance boost since you can,
> in theory, serve more files through the same luwak cluster than you could
> serve through a single file server (unless that file server itself were also
> clustered and attached to a SAN).
>
> If you're storing text (or some other easily understood format) you can use
> MapReduce to perform queries across your files instead of having to write
> some kind of file system crawler.
>
> Jeremiah Peschka
> Microsoft SQL Server MVP
> MCITP: Database Developer, DBA
>
>
> On Tue, Jan 25, 2011 at 8:56 AM, Joshua Partogi wrote:
>
>> From the wiki:
>> "Luwak works by breaking large files into blocks and storing each block as
>> a separate Riak object"
>>
>> But what does not get mentioned is the advantage of it. Does it make
>> serving files faster? Or does it save more space in HD?
>>
>> Thanks heaps for your assistance.
>>
>> --
>> http://twitter.com/jpartogi 
>>
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>
>>
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

