---
title: "Re: Can I store the different bucket objects but with same key in the	same place"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-01-10T09:15:14-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01941"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg01940"
author_name: "Sean Cribbs"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-01-10T09:15:14-08:00
---


That is correct -- that is, you can choose what chash\_keyfun to use. 

Hashing the key to the vnode is separate from the backend storage, so you can 
still store the same key in different buckets.

Sean Cribbs 
Developer Advocate
Basho Technologies, Inc.
http://basho.com/

On Jan 10, 2011, at 12:07 PM, 吴磊 wrote:

> Thanks. I checked the source code. It looks I ?CAN? use my own
> chash\_keyfun to replace the default riak\_core\_util:chash\_std\_keyfun.
> Mine only hash the Key, (not including Bucket. But bitcask still use
> {Bucket,Key} as hash key to store).
> 
> By this way, I make the objects, which have the same key but in
> different buckets, stored in the same vnode. Am I break something?
> 
> 
> On 1/10/11, Sean Cribbs  wrote:
>> To clear up this confusion, let me spell it out. The hash value of any
>> bucket/key pair is the SHA1 of the serialized tuple of {Bucket, Key}. That
>> is, {Bucket, Key} -> term\_to\_binary -> sha1.
>> 
>> The actual function that does the hashing:
>> 
>> https://github.com/basho/riak\_core/blob/master/src/chash.erl#L140
>> 
>> The helper function that most riak\_core applications use:
>> 
>> https://github.com/basho/riak\_core/blob/master/src/riak\_core\_util.erl#L160
>> 
>> An example of usage in the Get FSM:
>> 
>> https://github.com/basho/riak\_kv/blob/master/src/riak\_kv\_get\_fsm.erl#L70
>> 
>> Sean Cribbs 
>> Developer Advocate
>> Basho Technologies, Inc.
>> http://basho.com/
>> 
>> On Jan 10, 2011, at 7:36 AM, Jeremiah Peschka wrote:
>> 
>>> I believe that keys hare hashed using a combination of bucket name and key
>>> name. The bucket+key string is then run through SHA1. Don't take that as
>>> gospel, though. I searched my mailing list archive and couldn't find it,
>>> but this also could have happened on the IRC channel. Hopefully someone
>>> who knows the source can point you in the right direction.
>>> 
>>> Until then, you can safely assume that the hashed key is the result of
>>> SHA1(bucket\_name + key\_name). You should be able to determine if they're
>>> on the same node by hashing both bucket/key combos and then looking at the
>>> ring. Take a look at
>>> http://wiki.basho.com/Replication.html#Routing-an-object-to-a-set-of-partitions
>>> for more info on looking at the state of the ring.
>>> 
>>> Jeremiah Peschka
>>> Microsoft SQL Server MVP
>>> MCITP: Database Developer, DBA
>>> 
>>> 
>>> On Mon, Jan 10, 2011 at 3:42 AM, 吴磊  wrote:
>>> Hi, guys
>>> 
>>> I'm a newbie to Riak, I have the question. Will the objects, which in
>>> different buckets but have the same key, be stored in the same vnode
>>> and be managed by this vnode?
>>> 
>>> Best regards,
>>> 
>>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>>> riak-users mailing list
>>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>> 
>>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>>> riak-users mailing list
>>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>> 
>> 


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

