---
title: "Re: python client to riak"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-07-07T09:16:11-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00688"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg00686"
author_name: "Grant Schofield"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-07-07T09:16:11-07:00
---


We moved some things around recently and it looks like the documentation didn't 
move with it. I put the documentation on our wiki, you can find it here:
https://wiki.basho.com/download/attachments/360504/riak\_python.html

Sorry for the confusion.

Grant Schofield
Developer Advocate
Basho Technologies 


On Jul 7, 2010, at 9:07 AM, robert schaefer wrote:

> Hello All,
> 
> I am a new user to riak and want to use the python client.
> 
> First I installed the riak server and walked through a few of the steps 
> in the README steps at the text:
> "We are now ready to start the Riak Client:"
> it failed at the command:
>  exception error undefined function client\_connect)
> 
> I then tried the 
> "building a development environment" web page and got farther
> to the point that I could load a file and see it via web page. 
> 
> Anyway, 
> I hg'd riak-python-client and python setup.py installed it.
> The README said that there would be documentation in the docs directory.
> There is no docs directory.
> I googled riak python examples, and found none.
> 
> So now I have this python "client" code and have no idea how to use it.
> 
> Any help with examples for using the python client to Riak?
> 
> thanks in advance
> 
> -----------------------------------
> robert schaefer
> Atmospheric Sciences Group
> MIT Haystack Observatory
> Westford, MA 01886
> 
> email: r...@haystack.mit.edu
> voice: 781-981-5767
> www: http://www.haystack.mit.edu
> 
> 
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

