---
title: "Re: Riak Adoption - What can we do better?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-04-20T06:41:49-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07257"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg07256"
author_name: "Ephraim Mower"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-04-20T06:41:49-07:00
---


Mathias's book is great. I'd love to see more detail in Riak wiki, or maybe
a separate reference section. For instance, where are the details of
available Action arguments for for map\_object\_value, or for that matter the
list of available built-in m/r functions? As far as I know, you've got to
dig into riak\_kv\_mapreduce.erl\* \*to find out. Riak is easy to set up and
use, but once you get past basic use-cases, getting information isn't as
simple as it could be.

-Cork

On Fri, Apr 20, 2012 at 3:27 AM, Matthew Tovbin  wrote:

> Riak is one of the simplest KV stores I used so far. Almost zero learning
> curve
> and ease of setup makes it a great tool to start working with. Moreover,
> later you
> got rewarded by an outstanding stability and minimal maintenance even at
> large
> scale.
>
> So, the only obstacle I see in adoption of Riak lays in understanding the
> general
> datastore design principles using KV store, which probably is better to be
> explained by thoughtful examples.
>
> IMHO, it'll be nice for newbies to have an online live demo system(s)
> populated
> with some actual data and based on Riak  and
> Webmachine,
> allowing playing
> with
> it both manually and programmatically.
> Such demo will serve as display of applied Riak data design patterns.
>
>
> -Matthew
>
>
>
> On Thu, Apr 19, 2012 at 20:40, Jeremy Raymond  wrote:
>
>> +1 for better online docs (wiki). I also don't read them anymore and
>> also go to the source to figure out what to do or ask on the list.
>> Also using the Erlang client.
>>
>> --
>> Jeremy
>>
>> On Apr 19, 2012, at 11:31 PM, Daniil Churikov  wrote:
>>
>> > I wonder why you all ask a book, when there is no any docs on most
>> wanted
>> > features at all, or they are outdated. E.g. to find how to use 2i
>> queries in
>> > erlang i dive into sources, not docs. I really like riak, but look for
>> > example on mongodb docs, it is solid and useful, you could easily find
>> any
>> > topic you intresting in. Make it better for use and you will get what
>> you
>> > want.
>> >
>> > --
>> > View this message in context:
>> http://riak-users.197444.n3.nabble.com/Riak-Adoption-What-can-we-do-better-tp3923737p3924975.html
>> > Sent from the Riak Users mailing list archive at Nabble.com.
>> >
>> > \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> > riak-users mailing list
>> > riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> > http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>
>
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

