---
title: "Re: Deepest monitoring in Riak"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-02-09T15:14:48-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06571"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06559"
author_name: "Jose Ignacio Gil Jaldo"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-02-09T15:14:48-08:00
---


Hi Mark,

1st of all, never mind!

2nd thanks for the answer! I was almost sure there were nothing like that
right now (I even checked the sources and investigated how to add a simple
version of it).

3rd would it be really interesting? For example, I think it could be very
interesting for things like mapreduces or in case you're using protocol
buffers instead of http (because you may count the request in the LB logs
in case you're using one).

Thanks a lot and keep on doing such a good job,
José Ignacio Gil Jaldo

On Thu, Feb 9, 2012 at 1:57 AM, Mark Phillips  wrote:

> Hi Jose,
>
> Sorry for the late response on this...
>
> On Wed, Feb 1, 2012 at 9:31 AM, Jose Ignacio Gil Jaldo <
> naranj...@gmail.com> wrote:
>
>> Hi everyone,
>>
>> first of all, this is my first post in the mail list but I hope it won't
>> be the last. I like Riak a lot and it is making me start learning (and
>> loving) Erlang.
>>
>
> Welcome to the community. Glad you joined us. May your journey into Riak
> and Erlang by long, enriching, and only moderately frustrating. :)
>
>
>>
>> Does it exist something in Riak allowing to see which buckets are being
>> most frequently used, how many operations per second do they receive and
>> what type (get, put, delete, mapreduce) and so on. Is it possible with Riak
>> or some external tool to do it? I have seen the /stats url but even I find
>> it useful, it would be nice having something a bucket basis.
>>
>
> At this time there is nothing built into Riak that gives you this type of
> visibility. At some point down the line Riak Control [1] will have bucket
> browsing capabilities, but I can't make any promises about the specifics of
> this functionality.
>
>
>>
>> Of course, it is always possible to do that on a LB or similar, but it
>> would be nice to have integrated into Riak itself or with a tool as
>> transparent as possible. What do you think?
>>
>
> I do agree that it would great to have. I would start by adding more
> details around what you would to see in this feature to the feature request
> page [2].
>
> Thanks.
>
> Mark
>
> [1] https://github.com/basho/riak\_control
> [2] http://features.basho.com/home
>
>
>>
>> Thanks a lot,
>> José Ignacio Gil Jaldo
>>
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>
>>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

