---
title: "Re: multi-get (yet again)"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-08-09T04:55:03-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08237"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg08234"
author_name: "Eric Moritz"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-08-09T04:55:03-07:00
---


I toyed with a pmap in Python a while back to attempt to speed up multiple
HTTP request to our web services layer at work. You may want to attempt
that with gevent.

Here's the code I wrote which is probably not production ready.
https://github.com/ericmoritz/pmap
 On Aug 9, 2012 4:46 AM, "Parnell Springmeyer"  wrote:

> Jeremy,
>
> I was looking for something similar and first built an extra handler onto
> an internal erlang cowboy API server that used maelstrom (my own worker
> pool OTP application).
>
> It was used to make a simple POST with a string of the {bucket, key} pairs
> and the server would concurrently GET and combine the results and send it
> back. This was very fast (thousands of keys GET in ms).
>
> Since that seemed gross, I then decided (based on some input from someone
> else on the list) to try using a simple Map/Reduce phase that did not use
> javascript but the erlang functions (since those are going to be really
> fast and take advantage Erlang's concurrency better than the javascript
> VM's).
>
> In python, you can do this to run that type of M/R phase without knowing
> any Erlang code:
>
> client = riak.RiakClient()
>
> # Add your KNOWN bucket and key pairs (you can do this in a loop)
> query = client.add(bucket, key)
> query.add(bucket, key)
> query.add(bucket, key)
> etc… (as many as you like)
>
> # Now tell the map and reduce phases to use Erlang module
> "riak\_kv\_mapreduce" and its given function
> # "map\_object\_value" and "reduce\_set\_union".
> results = client.map(["riak\_kv\_mapreduce", "map\_object\_value"]) \
> .reduce(["riak\_kv\_mapreduce", "reduce\_set\_union"]) \
> .run()
>
> The above returns results faster for me, than the brokered multi-get
> approach I used (I guarantee my brokered multi-get is faster than anything
> you can do with python + gevent, if that's the case, the M/R phase is
> definitely the route you want to go).
>
> So IMHO, it is very fast as long as you know the buckets and keys you want
> to get.
>
> On Aug 9, 2012, at 12:11 AM, Jeremy Dunck wrote:
>
> > I'm new to riak and need multi-get (that is, getting the value and/or
> > existence of keys in a single network-trip latency).
> >
> > I was wondering what the latency of the map-reduce approach is?
> >
> http://lists.basho.com/pipermail/riak-users\_lists.basho.com/2011-February/003229.html
> >
> > Alternatively, has anyone tried scaling concurrent gets (perhaps with
> > evented io) to do many concurrent requests and combining results on
> > the client?
> >
> > I am toying with a python+gevent multiget function. If the stance is
> > still that a multiget operation doesn't belong in core, I'm a little
> > surprised that there doesn't seem to at least be a nice client-lib API
> > func to do it. It sure seems useful...
> >
> > In my use-case, the immediate need is to know whether a db insert
> > needs to be done. We're handling too many keys to want to store in
> > memory (so no redis, etc), and we don't want to go to the db more than
> > we need to, so it seems riak would be good here. But we're getting
> > 1000s of potential insert keys and want to whittle down all those to a
> > relative few db inserts.
> >
> > So I was thinking riak key-per-id, and insert to the db iff the riak
> > key doesn't exist, then add the riak key. We'll get some race
> > conditions on the insert, but that's OK in our case.
> >
> > We do need low latency on the riak check, though, hence either
> > multiplexing w/ eventing or map-reduce (if that latency is actually
> > good).
> >
> > Am I doing it wrong?
> >
> > \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> > riak-users mailing list
> > riak-users@lists.basho.com
> > http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

