---
title: "Re: Riak Recap as a Blog (?)"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-06-13T07:37:24-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03657"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg03634"
author_name: "Mark Phillips"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-06-13T07:37:24-07:00
---


Nice! I wouldn't mind seeing a cleaned up version if you have a moment...

Thanks!

Mark

On Thu, Jun 9, 2011 at 5:15 PM, Sylvain Niles wrote:

> This calls for silly hats.
> It's a re-cap, heh.
>
>
> http://rookery9.aviary.com.s3.amazonaws.com/8461000/8461482\_11a7\_625x625.jpg
>
> If anyone likes silly hats I could certainly clean this up a lot.
>
>
>
>
> On Thu, Jun 9, 2011 at 4:27 PM, Mark Phillips  wrote:
>
>> Firstly, thanks for the feedback. This is exactly what we were looking
>> for!
>>
>> It's pretty clear that people would find value in consuming the Recaps via
>> both email and blog/rss. So, that's what we are going to do :) Once the
>> initial setup is taken care of, posting a blog entry with the same content
>> as the plain text Recap that's sent to this list will take all of 15
>> minutes. That's a small price to pay IMO, and I'll happily do it to reach a
>> wider audience. :)
>>
>> For those of you who were asking for a prettier search interface for the
>> list, http://riak.markmail.org/ is an invaluable resource. I'll work on
>> making that link more visible. We might be able to make this list more
>> searchable, too. I'm looking into it.
>>
>> Alright. Off to build a Recap blog. Not sure when that'll be done but it
>> shouldn't take more than a week or two to finalize.
>>
>> One other thought I just had: it might be cool for the Recap blog to have
>> a nifty logo. Any amateur graphic designers out there want to take a stab
>> creating a "Riak Recap" logo? It pays a Riak t-shirt, stickers, and praise
>> and adoration of Riak users everywhere ...
>>
>> Thanks again!
>>
>> Mark
>>
>> On Mon, Jun 6, 2011 at 7:54 PM, Jonathan Langevin <
>> jlange...@loomlearning.com> wrote:
>>
>>> +1 on blog.
>>>
>>> Additionally, I agree with Keith about ability to search. While a mailing
>>> list is great for being able to converse via email, it seems that quite alot
>>> of valuable conversations and tips get "lost" due to how ML discussions are
>>> archived (i.e. - the interface).
>>>
>>> For instance, it would be nice to browse in a forum-style interface
>>> (instead of having to dig through date-archived postings), and esp if the
>>> ability to respond via web existed, that would be awesome.
>>> Google Groups would be a good solution, as it seems to be pretty much a
>>> forum interface to a mailing list. Only issue is I've seen spam quite often
>>> in Google Groups, but I don't know if that's just due to lists not having
>>> proper administrators (or some type of spam filter is not enabled).
>>> \*
>>>
>>> 
>>> Jonathan Langevin
>>> Systems Administrator
>>> Loom Inc.
>>> Wilmington, NC: (910) 241-0433 - jlange...@loomlearning.com -
>>> www.loomlearning.com - Skype: intel352
>>> \*
>>>
>>>
>>>
>>> On Mon, Jun 6, 2011 at 10:32 AM, Keith Bennett <
>>> keith.benn...@lmnsolutions.com> wrote:
>>>
>>>> Mark -
>>>>
>>>> I think that's a great idea. I'd go even further, and suggest that the
>>>> valuable information discussed on the mailing list be managed in a
>>>> searchable form, as is the case with Google or Yahoo Groups. (Is it
>>>> searchable now? I couldn't see how to search the entire archive for a
>>>> keyword.)
>>>>
>>>> This would be helpful for we users of riak, and even possibly for riak
>>>> developers, since finding more information might prevent people from asking
>>>> a question that has already been asked in the past, saving them time. In
>>>> this case, you might want to copy the Recap to a message on the mailing
>>>> list, so it's searchable there as well.
>>>>
>>>> Thanks,
>>>> Keith
>>>>
>>>>
>>>> On Jun 6, 2011, at 2:51 AM, Mark Phillips wrote:
>>>>
>>>> > Hey All -
>>>> >
>>>> > Quick question: how would you feel if we turned the Riak Recap into a
>>>> blog?
>>>> >
>>>> > I've spoken with various people in various channels about how to best
>>>> > deliver the Recap, and while it's clear that it's a valuable tool for
>>>> > the community, I'm not sure the Mailing List is still the best vehicle
>>>> > through which to publish it.
>>>> >
>>>> > Publishing it as a blog (perhaps at "recap.basho.com") makes a lot of
>>>> > sense as it would enable people to consume it without having to sift
>>>> > through the rest of the mailing list traffic (and I know there are
>>>> > more than a few of you who are on this ML only for the Recaps). More
>>>> > importantly, I think it would bring more new readers to the Recap (and
>>>> > more users to Riak).
>>>> >
>>>> > So, in the interest of convenience and expanding the size of the Riak
>>>> > community, I think making it a blog might make sense. It would still
>>>> > be written, published, and tweeted thrice weekly, just delivered to
>>>> > you in your Reader, for example, instead of on the ML.
>>>> >
>>>> > As you all are the primary consumers of the Recap, I thought I would
>>>> > gather some opinions before I did anything drastic. Anyone have
>>>> > thoughts on this?
>>>> >
>>>> > +/-1s, rants, and all other expressions of opinion are encouraged.
>>>> >
>>>> > Thanks,
>>>> >
>>>> > Mark
>>>> >
>>>> > Community Manager
>>>> > Basho Technologies
>>>> > wiki.basho.com
>>>> > twitter.com/pharkmillups
>>>> >
>>>> > \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>>>> > riak-users mailing list
>>>> > riak-users@lists.basho.com
>>>> > http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>>>
>>>>
>>>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>>>> riak-users mailing list
>>>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>>>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>>>
>>>
>>>
>>
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>
>>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

