---
title: "Re: Riak 1.0 pre-release series"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-09-07T20:01:29-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04604"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04603"
author_name: "Jonathan Langevin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-09-07T20:01:29-07:00
---


Thanks for the reply :-)

\*
Joe's email was very informative. Might I then suggest that your pre-draft
release notes all be emailed to the list when available (similar to Joe's
email), so that those of us interesting in tinkering with 1.0PR have
relevant info available? If not, that's understandable, but would be quite a
great help otherwise :-D

 
 Jonathan Langevin
Systems Administrator
Loom Inc.
Wilmington, NC: (910) 241-0433 - jlange...@loomlearning.com -
www.loomlearning.com - Skype: intel352
\*


On Wed, Sep 7, 2011 at 10:55 PM, David Smith  wrote:

> Hi Jonathan,
>
> We're working on compiling all that and we should have a draft of it out in
> a not too distant PR. It is a fair bit of change, as evidenced by Joe's
> earlier email about clustering (and that's just \_one\_ area).
>
> MapReduce has undergone a substantial change^H^H^Hrewrite, but we are
> shipping both the old and new versions to avoid major compatibility issues.
> If you upgrade an existing cluster config, it will use the legacy one until
> you explicitly change over to the new one. If you create a new cluster, it
> will start with the new system.
>
> Re: packages, I don't think we'll get included in any distros at this time.
> Maybe later this year if we can find interested maintainers. :)
>
> Thanks,
>
> D.
>
>
> On Wed, Sep 7, 2011 at 8:34 PM, Jonathan Langevin <
> jlange...@loomlearning.com> wrote:
>
>> Are there any early release notes available as well, regarding specific
>> new features (high profile or not) that we should pay special attention to,
>> or possible compatibility issues with upgrading from 0.14.x to 1.0 PR, or
>> compatibility issues with any map/reduce functionality, or compatibility
>> with existing clients?
>>
>> I'm not saying that there are or should be issues, but it seems like a
>> fairly major version jump, so I want to make sure there aren't any "wow, you
>> should've realized X had changed" types of issues :-)
>>
>> Also, any plans for getting the 1.0 final release into package manager
>> repos? (i.e. - apt-get for Debian, for instance)
>>
>> \*
>> 
>> Jonathan Langevin
>> Systems Administrator
>> Loom Inc.
>> Wilmington, NC: (910) 241-0433 - jlange...@loomlearning.com -
>> www.loomlearning.com - Skype: intel352
>> \*
>>
>>
>> On Wed, Sep 7, 2011 at 7:24 PM, David Smith  wrote:
>>
>>> Hi All,
>>>
>>> I'm proud to announce that we're taking the first steps towards
>>> releasing Riak 1.0 with the creation of the 1.0 branch and initial
>>> package builds. With 1.0, we will be doing two series of builds before
>>> the final release.
>>>
>>> The first stage is "pre-release" (aka PR) builds that represent the
>>> feature-complete Riak 1.0, with minor cleanup and tweaks still
>>> ongoing. You WILL find some rough edges with packaging and the
>>> features -- we're still working through these and will do pre-releases
>>> as often as necessary to get these issues resolved. We'll also be
>>> trying to incorporate outstanding pull requests where change is
>>> minimal/manageable.
>>>
>>> The second stage is "release candidate" (aka RC) builds that represent
>>> what we believe to be a solid product, suitable for release. Once we
>>> hit this stage, only major, show-stopping bugs will be addressed.
>>>
>>> We would love to get your feedback on these builds, good or bad. We're
>>> trying this new process to do a better job of incorporating community
>>> feedback BEFORE the release. :) If you run into issues, please drop us
>>> a line on the ML or in IRC -- we'll do our best to stay on top of it.
>>> If you'd like to file bugs, we ask you do a check of bugzilla to avoid
>>> creating duplicate issues. Also note that the docs on wiki.basho.com
>>> may still reflect 0.14.2; we'll be addressing those over next few
>>> weeks.
>>>
>>> It goes without saying that you should think twice before running a PR
>>> or RC in production. :)
>>>
>>> So, without further ado:
>>>
>>> http://downloads.basho.com/riak/riak-1.0.0pre1/
>>>
>>> D.
>>>
>>> --
>>> Dave Smith
>>> Director, Engineering
>>> Basho Technologies, Inc.
>>> diz...@basho.com
>>>
>>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>>> riak-users mailing list
>>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>>
>>
>>
>
>
> --
> Dave Smith
> Director, Engineering
> Basho Technologies, Inc.
> diz...@basho.com
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

