---
title: "Re: riaksearch performance, row limit, sorting not necessary"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-04-14T07:53:39-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03029"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg03022"
author_name: "Gordon Tillman"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-04-14T07:53:39-07:00
---


Daniel the max\_search\_results only applies to searches done via the solr 
interface. From 
http://lists.basho.com/pipermail/riak-users\_lists.basho.com/2011-January/002974.html:

- System now aborts queries that would queue up too many documents in
 a result set. This is controlled by a 'max\_search\_results' setting
 in riak\_search. Note that this only affects the Solr
 interface. Searches through the Riak Client API that feed into a
 Map/Reduce job are still allowed to execute because the system
 streams those results.


So you can use a map-reduce operation (with the search phase providing the 
inputs) and you should be OK.

--gordon


On Apr 14, 2011, at 04:49 , Daniel Rathbone wrote:

Hi list,

I'm wondering how riaksearch performance will degrade as I add documents.

For my purpose I limit rows at 1k and sorting is not necessary. I have a 
single node cluster for development. I know I can increase performance if I 
add nodes but I'd like to understand this before I do.

My documents are small ~200 bytes. With an index of 30k and rows limited to 
1k, no problems. I added 100k documents, and then I hit the too\_many\_results 
error. Since I still have my row limit set at 1k, this indicates that the 
query does not return as soon as it finds the first 1k hits. Is there a way to 
short circuit my queries so that they don't have to scan the whole index?

I got around too\_many\_results by increasing my max\_search\_results (I read 
https://help.basho.com/entries/480664-i-get-the-error-too-many-results). I 
wonder, though, if I'll keep bumping memory boundaries as I add a few million 
docs to my index.

Thanks,
Daniel


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

