---
title: "Re: riak failed to start up"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-08-07T16:04:33-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08199"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg08187"
author_name: "Mark Phillips"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-08-07T16:04:33-07:00
---


Hi Sangeetha,

It looks familiar but it's hard to say. Can you share the Riak
version? And what OS you're running?

Mark

On Tue, Aug 7, 2012 at 4:15 AM,  wrote:
> Hi ,
>
>
>
> Can any one help me on the start up error ..thx in advance
>
> [root@CTSINGMRGTO riak]# cat console.log
>
> 2012-08-07 09:13:54.260 [error] <0.164.0> CRASH REPORT Process
> riak\_core\_capability with 0 neighbours exited with reason: no function
> clause matching orddict:fetch('riak@127.0.0.1', []) line 72 in
> gen\_server:terminate/6 line 747
>
>
>
> [root@CTSINGMRGTO riak]# riak start
>
> Attempting to restart script through sudo -u riak
>
> /etc/profile: line 31: id: command not found
>
> /usr/sbin/riak: line 6: uname: command not found
>
> /usr/sbin/riak: line 6: [: too many arguments
>
> /usr/sbin/riak: line 30: whoami: command not found
>
> sudo doesn't appear to be installed and your EUID isn't riak
>
>
>
>
>
> on running as service
>
>
>
> [root@CTSINGMRGTO riak]# service riak start
>
> Starting Riak: Riak failed to start within 15 seconds,
>
> see the output of 'riak console' for more information.
>
> If you want to wait longer, set the environment variable
>
> WAIT\_FOR\_ERLANG to the number of seconds to wait.
>
> [FAILED]
>
>
>
> Thanks & regards
>
> sangeetha
>
>
>
> This e-mail and any files transmitted with it are for the sole use of the
> intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential and privileged
> information. If you are not the intended recipient(s), please reply to the
> sender and destroy all copies of the original message. Any unauthorized
> review, use, disclosure, dissemination, forwarding, printing or copying of
> this email, and/or any action taken in reliance on the contents of this
> e-mail is strictly prohibited and may be unlawful.
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

