---
title: "Re: Announcing Riak 1.1 release candidate 2"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-02-10T07:14:19-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06582"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06581"
author_name: "David Smith"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-02-10T07:14:19-08:00
---


Hi Mark,

We are working on 1160, but the odds are we'll need to provide a patch
shortly after the release. It's mostly an annoyance right now (i.e. no
data is lost because of it), but an incorrect fix could become
something more serious. At the very least, we'll provide a workaround
script for 1.1 to ensure it's straightforward to identify the bjorked
file.

Hope that helps,

D.

On Fri, Feb 10, 2012 at 7:49 AM, Mark Steele  wrote:
> Just curious, but is bz1160 slated to be fixed for 1.1? Seems kind of
> serious...
>
>
> On Fri, Feb 10, 2012 at 9:43 AM, Jeremiah Peschka
>  wrote:
>>
>> Good to know! CorrugatedIron should already let you do that, so we can
>> keep coasting by on good looks and charm.
>>
>> ---
>> Jeremiah Peschka, MVP
>> Managing Director, Brent Ozar PLF, LLC
>>
>> On Feb 10, 2012, at 12:09 AM, Russell Brown  wrote:
>>
>>
>> On 10 Feb 2012, at 03:04, Jeremiah Peschka wrote:
>>
>> Are there any protocol changes for client developers to be aware of, or
>> are we safe?
>>
>>
>> Not strictly a protocol change, but It is possible to run a MapReduce job
>> \*without\* phases now. If your client previously disallowed this it should
>> change.
>>
>> To make it clear - the MapReduce JSON must still contain both 'inputs' and
>> 'query' elements, but 'query' may be an empty list '[]'. In 1.0.\* this would
>> result in a 400 with the body
>>
>> "An error occurred parsing the "query" field.
>> "No query phases were given\n""
>>
>> In 1.1 you will get a list of Bucket/Key pairs returned.
>>
>> Cheers
>>
>> Russell
>>
>> ---
>> Jeremiah Peschka
>> Managing Director, Brent Ozar PLF, LLC
>>
>>
>> On Thu, Feb 9, 2012 at 7:01 PM, Jared Morrow  wrote:
>>>
>>> The next release candidate has been built and uploaded to our Downloads
>>> page listed below.   The RELEASE-NOTES at the link below has also been
>>> updated with the latest fixes.
>>>
>>> Lastly, we are tentatively planning on releasing Riak 1.1 the week of
>>> February 20th, so if you have some particular test cases you want to run
>>> before we cut the final release, now is your chance!
>>>
>>> Thanks,
>>> Jared
>>>
>>>
>>> On Feb 7, 2012, at 9:25 PM, Jared Morrow wrote:
>>>
>>> Riak Users,
>>>
>>> I am pleased to announce the availability of Riak 1.1.0 RC (release
>>> candidate) 1.   We are providing RC packages of 1.1 to the community like we
>>> did with the last major release (Riak 1.0) in the hopes that you as a
>>> community can offer us feedback before final release.   Unlike 1.0 though,
>>> we are planning the 1.1 release to be a shorter cycle from first RC to final
>>> release (barring any major event or bug that is found with RC1 obviously).
>>>  So, please download, install, abuse, and enjoy RC1 and let us know what you
>>> think.
>>>
>>> Download from the downloads page http://basho.com/resources/downloads/
>>> under 1.1 or CURRENT.
>>>
>>> An extremely rough initial draft of the 1.1 release notes is available
>>> here:  https://github.com/basho/riak/blob/master/RELEASE-NOTES.org
>>> I assure you it will be filled out with actual descriptions of features
>>> added by the time 1.1 ships.
>>>
>>> As always, thanks from the entire Basho team!
>>>
>>>
>>>
>>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>>> riak-users mailing list
>>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>>
>>
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>
>>
>>
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>
>
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>



-- 
Dave Smith
VP, Engineering
Basho Technologies, Inc.
diz...@basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

