---
title: "Re: Using PBClusterConfig with RiakClient"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-04-11T14:15:23-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07193"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg07192"
author_name: "Ahmed Bashir"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-04-11T14:15:23-07:00
---


It's not clear why the raw client API can't store() a RiakObject; it
looks like I need to implement IRiakObject myself

On Wed, Apr 11, 2012 at 1:39 PM, Russell Brown  wrote:
>
> On 11 Apr 2012, at 21:20, Ahmed Bashir wrote:
>
>> Thanks Russell!
>>
>> Any benefit to using IRiakClient vs RawClient other than what's
>> apparent in the API spec?
>>
>
> RawClient leaves you to deal with all the trade-offs that are consequences of 
> using fault-tolerant, distributed databases like Riak, IRiakClient offers one 
> set of possible well-behaved approaches.
>
> With RawClient, you need to retry a failure, IRiakClient has a default 
> retrier and lets you provide a custom one of your own to handle faults. 
> RawClient will give you an array of Riak Objects and a vector clock where 
> IRiakClient makes it easy to convert the payload to a domain type to simplify 
> sibling resolution. IRiakClient will always fetch before a store and will 
> pass the vector clock for you.
>
> Which you chose depends on what code you want to write and the style you 
> prefer to code in. IRiakClient is there to make it harder for people to shoot 
> themselves in the foot and to incorporate some best practices for being a 
> well behaved Riak client, RawClient is used by IRiakClient, and can certainly 
> be used to build your own interactions with Riak.
>
> I hope that helps explain why there are there 2 layers that you can use, one 
> building on the other.
>
> Please feel free to ask away if I can clear it up any more,
>
> Cheers
>
> Russell
>
>> On Wed, Apr 11, 2012 at 12:09 PM, Russell Brown  wrote:
>>> Hi Ahmed,
>>>
>>> On 11 Apr 2012, at 19:45, Ahmed Bashir wrote:
>>>
>>> Thanks for the link; this is precisely what led me to believe that
>>> PBClusterConfig only supports IRiakClient, so I thought I'd ask around
>>>
>>>
>>> PBClusterConfig is used to produce a RawClient. IRiakClient is just a
>>> wrapper around RawClient. The cluster client is a RawClient. RawClient is
>>> more like that legacy RiakClient/RiakObject classes you're using.
>>>
>>> See 
>>> http://basho.github.com/riak-java-client/1.0.5/com/basho/riak/client/raw/pbc/PBRiakClientFactory.html
>>> for
>>> details.
>>>
>>> Cheers
>>>
>>> Russell
>>>
>>>
>>> ...
>>>
>>> Also, if we create a RiakClient with a single host (and others exist),
>>> is there any auto-dicovery that goes on to balance the requests across
>>> ll ring members, or will that one host process all the app requests?
>>>
>>>
>>>
>>> On Wed, Apr 11, 2012 at 11:32 AM, Sean Cribbs  wrote:
>>>
>>> Ahmed,
>>>
>>>
>>> I think you'll find this resource useful, it contains some examples of how
>>>
>>> to use
>>>
>>> PBClusterConfig: 
>>> https://github.com/basho/riak-java-client/wiki/ClientFactory
>>>
>>>
>>> On Wed, Apr 11, 2012 at 2:29 PM, Ahmed Bashir 
>>>
>>> wrote:
>>>
>>>
>>> Hey guys,
>>>
>>>
>>> I currently have an app that uses the RiakClient/RiakObject interface
>>>
>>> (fetch(),store(),etc) in lieu of the
>>>
>>> IRiakClient/IRiakObject/FetchObject interface.
>>>
>>>
>>> Is there any way for me to continue using my code with
>>>
>>> PBClusterConfig?  It looks like I need to move to using IRiakClient in
>>>
>>> order to take advantage of PBClusterConfig, is that so?
>>>
>>>
>>> Any insight would be appreciated, thanks!
>>>
>>>
>>> Ahmed
>>>
>>>
>>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>>>
>>> riak-users mailing list
>>>
>>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>>>
>>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>>
>>>
>>>
>>>
>>>
>>> --
>>>
>>> Sean Cribbs 
>>>
>>> Software Engineer
>>>
>>> Basho Technologies, Inc.
>>>
>>> http://basho.com/
>>>
>>>
>>>
>>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>>> riak-users mailing list
>>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>>
>>>
>>
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

