---
title: "Re: Cluster on startup."
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-11-07T01:28:02-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg09222"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg09219"
author_name: "OJ Reeves"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-11-07T01:28:02-08:00
---


Hello Kevin,

The 'name' attribute in the 'node' element that you see in the
configuration for CorrugatedIron was initially intended to be a helpful
identifier to make it clear exactly which node is actually being reference
by that configuration element. In the work that I have done with it, the
attribute usually contains the name of the Riak node (eg. dev1, dev2).

The reason this is in place is because, as far as configuration is
concerned, the node needs some sort of meaningful identifier. It's hard to
infer what the best identifier would be without it. Do you go on host/port?
If so, which port? http or PB? What if you have multiple nodes on a single
host? (not recommended for prod of course, but reasonable for dev). This
node name will ultimately be shown in logs and whatnot.

We decided that instead we would delegate the responsibility of identifying
the node to the developer and hence that's why the name field is there. You
can put whatever you like in it, as long as it's unique to that node and
doesn't appear in the rest of the cluster. This would hopefully give more
meaning to the ops/dev teams when information appears in logs.

If you are looking for more help getting up and running with a Riak cluster
for development purposes and/or need to get going with CorrugatedIron,
please feel free to ping me directly off list, I'm happy to help in any way
I can.

Best regards
OJ





On Wed, Nov 7, 2012 at 2:39 PM, Kevin Burton wrote:

> \*\* \*\*
>
> I installed from source and I had directories dev1, dev2, dev3, and dev4.
> Each of those directories had sub-directories of bin and etc. I am assuming
> that I need the contents of these directories. What is the bare minimum
> that I need to start up a cluster like the Quick Start? Each of these
> directories contain about 6Mb of “stuff”. I would hope that not all of this
> is needed. Where does the “name” come from that would be put in the client
> configuration like CorrugatedIron?\*\*\*\*
>
> \*\* \*\*
>
> \*From:\* Reid Draper [mailto:reiddra...@gmail.com]
> \*Sent:\* Tuesday, November 06, 2012 9:36 PM
> \*To:\* Kevin Burton
> \*Cc:\* riak-users@lists.basho.com
> \*Subject:\* Re: Cluster on startup.\*\*\*\*
>
> \*\* \*\*
>
> \*\* \*\*
>
> On Nov 6, 2012, at 5:43 PM, Kevin Burton  wrote:
> \*\*\*\*
>
>
>
> \*\*\*\*
>
> This is probably an FAQ but I was unable to find an answer so hopefully
> there will be some patient people.\*\*\*\*
>
> \*\*\*\*
>
> The “Quick Start” builds a simple cluster all on the same machine (called
> dev1, dev2, and dev3). It assigns the ports, IP addresses, etc. I would
> like to do something similar but I would like the cluster to startup
> automatically. What do I need to add to the configuration file so that all
> of the joins etc. happen on startup? This would be a Ubuntu Server if it
> makes any difference.\*\*\*\*
>
> \*\* \*\*
>
> There is no configuration option to do this. However, once the nodes have
> been joined to a cluster, they'll\*\*\*\*
>
> remain part of the same cluster even if they're restarted. Hope this helps.
> \*\*\*\*
>
> \*\* \*\*
>
> Reid\*\*\*\*
>
> \*\* \*\*
>
> \*\*\*\*
>
> Thank you.\*\*\*\*
>
> \*\*\*\*
>
> Kevin\*\*\*\*
>
> \*\*\*\*
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com\*\*\*\*
>
> \*\* \*\*
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>


-- 

OJ Reeves
+61 431 952 586
http://buffered.io/
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

