---
title: "Re: ripple, use same model as regular document and embedded."
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-10-03T14:22:11-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08802"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg08801"
author_name: "Charlie Bowman"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-10-03T14:22:11-07:00
---


I think, I've figured out that the only way to accomplish what I'm shooting
for is to decouple the persistance layer from the business logic of my
message class. That way I can embed a message object into any other class,
including a "PersistedMessage" class.

I believe that riak search would do the trick, but I believe a straight
lookup will be considerably faster.

Charlie

On Wed, Oct 3, 2012 at 2:16 PM, Martin Streicher wrote:

>
> Can Riak search help here?
>
>
> On Oct 3, 2012, at 3:16 PM, Charlie Bowman wrote:
>
> > I want to create a model that I can save to its own bucket, but also be
> able to embed it in another model. Is this possible with ripple?
> >
> > Specifically I want to create a Message model, that I can save and
> lookup easily. I also want to embed a copy of that class in a
> ReceivedMessage class. I would like to work with these models as such:
> >
> > message = Message.new
> > message.body = 'foo'
> > message.save!
> >
> > received = ReceivedMessage.new
> > received.messages << message
> > received.save!
> >
> >
> > By doing this I know I have 2 copies of the message, but I'm alright
> with that. I'm optimizing for reads not storage space.
> > My endgame is that I want to look up messages without looking through
> the recieved messages, and I want a user to quickly view all received
> messages without looking up each individual message.
> >
> >
> >
> > \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> > riak-users mailing list
> > riak-users@lists.basho.com
> > http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

