---
title: "Re: Slow Riak issue"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-08-26T07:34:43-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04474"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04467"
author_name: "Jeremiah Peschka"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-08-26T07:34:43-07:00
---


Hi Neil, 

Which one of the .NET clients are you using? If it's CorrugatedIron, let me 
know and I can work with you off list to get things connected (OJ Reeves and I 
maintain it). I don't think the other two libraries are getting much 
maintenance and attention at the moment. 

If you can't connect, have you looked into the app.config to change the IPs 
that Riak will bind to? By default it's set to only bind to 127.0.0.1. You can 
change that for development purposes to 0.0.0.0 (I'd use the real IP address 
for production). Since you have two nodes on the same host, make sure that 
they're not both using the same port.

Otherwise:

You'll see slower performance with HTTP requests than you will with Protocol 
Buffers requests.

Let me know how I can help more.
---
Jeremiah Peschka - Founder, Brent Ozar PLF, LLC
Microsoft SQL Server MVP

On Aug 25, 2011, at 8:32 PM, Neil Unadkat wrote:

> Hey, 
> We have been testing Riak to use as our backend database, but one of the 
> issues that we are facing is that Riak is very slow when a call is made from 
> the c# sharp code.
> In the code, we have used the basic Web Client class, and make a simple GET 
> call. It takes like 2 seconds to get one object.
> We have setup a cluster which has 2 nodes on Mac mini, and one on an Ubuntu 
> machine. 
> I have tried using the .net client library mentioned on the site, but with 
> those i cannot even connect to the nodes.
> Can anyone help? \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

