---
title: "Re: Riakaws - AWS Deployment"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-04-22T13:38:51-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00133"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg00129"
author_name: "Matthew Heitzenroder"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-04-22T13:38:51-07:00
---


Alexander, Sean-

Thank you both very much! I added your suggestions: 
http://github.com/roder/riakaws/commit/607a8185fb6e934f85a1e7afcaa418444cfd6884

Cheers,
Matt

On Apr 22, 2010, at 12:47 PM, Alexander Sicular wrote:

> I would also add the following to your app.config in the innostore section:
> 
> {open\_files, 100} %% Limit to 100 open file handles
> 
> I got that form Jon Meredith when I was having issues with the number
> of fd's riak was opening. You should pick a number that's right for
> you based on the number of buckets in your app. More buckets = more
> inno files. Too many open files and your system goes kaboom.
> 
> 
> 
> On Thu, Apr 22, 2010 at 15:30, Matthew Heitzenroder
>  wrote:
>> Interesting.... okay, well innostore wasn't ditching, but i'm making the
>> change anyhow. Thanks for your help Sean.
>> Matt
>> 
>> On Apr 22, 2010, at 12:18 PM, Sean Cribbs wrote:
>> 
>> If your node starts up and innostore doesn't crash, then it worked. Newer
>> versions of innostore will bail early if SMP is not enabled.
>> Sean Cribbs 
>> Developer Advocate
>> Basho Technologies, Inc.
>> http://basho.com/
>> On Apr 22, 2010, at 1:51 PM, Matthew Heitzenroder wrote:
>> 
>> Sean-
>> Thanks for the feedback.
>> Regarding -smp enable, I'm going to add that to the vm.args
>> Is there a way that I can verify my changed worked?
>> Thanks,
>> Matt
>> 
>> On Apr 22, 2010, at 6:22 AM, Sean Cribbs wrote:
>> 
>> Matt,
>> Good work! We have a couple of comments for you:
>> 1) "heart" is probably not the best way to keep your Riak nodes up - it has
>> a tendency to restart nodes that fail fatally, and doesn't behave well when
>> you want to shut down a node normally. You might be better off with a
>> traditional monitoring tool like "monit" which can back off restarts and
>> notify you when a node is flapping.
>> 2) Make sure your configuration, either via editing vm.args or via the
>> ERL\_FLAGS environment variable, includes "-smp enable". Innostore won't
>> work without it.
>> Sean Cribbs 
>> Developer Advocate
>> Basho Technologies, Inc.
>> http://basho.com/
>> On Apr 22, 2010, at 6:46 AM, Matthew Heitzenroder wrote:
>> 
>> Hello riak-users
>> If you're an Amazon Web Services user, I'd really appreciate anyone who is
>> willing to review this:
>> http://github.com/roder/riakaws
>> Riakaws is just a simple way to deploy a Riak cluster in the Amazon cloud.
>> Thanks in advance for an feedback or pull requests.
>> Cheers,
>> Matt
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>> 
>> 
>> 
>> 
>> 
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>> 
>> 


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

