---
title: "Re: Stopping/Starting Riak."
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-01-14T02:34:43-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg09812"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg09810"
author_name: "Richard Shaw"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-01-14T02:34:43-08:00
---


No problem Kevin

Regards

Richard

On Sun, Jan 13, 2013 at 9:37 PM, Kevin Burton  wrote:
> The problem seemed to go away. I was some other password request. Sudo
> password requests always have the string '[sudo]' in it so I can tell where
> it came from. This prompt just asked 'Password: '. Anyway I cannot reproduce
> it now so I guess it is resolved. Thank you and sorry for the 'false alarm'.
>
> -----Original Message-----
> From: Richard Shaw [mailto:rich...@basho.com]
> Sent: Saturday, January 12, 2013 8:22 PM
> To: Kevin Burton
> Cc: Justin Sheehy; riak-users
> Subject: Re: Stopping/Starting Riak.
>
> Hi Kevin
>
> Try:
>
> sudo su -
>
> Then:
>
> /etc/init.d/riak stop
>
> What happens and what's the output?
>
> Regards
>
> Richard
>
> On Sat, Jan 12, 2013 at 3:35 PM, Kevin Burton 
> wrote:
>> It is not sudo. I have already entered the password for sudo at this
> point.
>>
>> -----Original Message-----
>> From: Justin Sheehy [mailto:jus...@basho.com]
>> Sent: Saturday, January 12, 2013 9:30 AM
>> To: Kevin Burton
>> Cc: riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> Subject: Re: Stopping/Starting Riak.
>>
>>
>> On Jan 12, 2013, at 10:26 AM, Kevin Burton wrote:
>>
>>> I noticed that I have no problem with 'sudo /etc/init.d/riak stop'.
>>> But,
>> when I try to start the process with 'sudo /etc/init.d/riak start' I
>> am met with a prompt for a password. What is the password? I don't
>> recall setting a password.
>>
>> That is sudo, not Riak, asking for your password. You should use the
>> same password that you use to log in to that machine.
>>
>> -Justin
>>
>>
>>
>>
>>
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

