---
title: "Re: Indexes on 64 bit values"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-12-09T06:29:03-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg09490"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg09489"
author_name: "Jeremiah Peschka"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-12-09T06:29:03-08:00
---


If you need an index on a 64-bit value, you can get creative and store the
64-bit number as the hex representation of your 64-bit value in a binary
index. Seems to me that a bit of lateral thinking is easier than a breaking
change in either a database client or, worse, a database itself.

Example:

1619587083804677205 becomes the string 0x1679EDDF2CFD1455.

Using the powers of sorting, everything works out in the end.6



On Sunday, December 9, 2012, Deepak Balasubramanyam wrote:

> Bumping this thread back up. Can someone from Basho take a shot at this ?
>
> Thanks
> -Deepak
>
>
> On Wed, Dec 5, 2012 at 6:10 PM, Deepak Balasubramanyam <
> deepak.b...@gmail.com  'deepak.b...@gmail.com');>> wrote:
>
>> Hi folks,
>>
>> I have a query regarding riak indexes. My current understanding is that
>> riak cannot index numbers whose representation needs more than 32 bits.
>> There is an issue on the basho repo to address this -
>> https://github.com/basho/riak-java-client/issues/112 . Do you have any
>> idea when it will be fixed ?
>>
>> I've mentioned a way to work around this problem on a comment on the
>> issue. The work-around would not be efficient since JS code would have to
>> go through N rows to drop ones that do not fit a particular criteria on the
>> number. If there is a better solution to the problem, I'd like to hear your
>> thoughts on that also.
>>
>> Thank you for your time.
>> -Deepak
>>
>
>

-- 
---
Jeremiah Peschka
Founder, Brent Ozar Unlimited
Microsoft SQL Server MVP
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

