---
title: "Re: Inline fields in riak search"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-10-22T20:20:40-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01350"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg01348"
author_name: "Jebu Ittiachen"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-10-22T20:20:40-07:00
---


Hi Rusty,
 Looking forward to it coming out, exactly the use case I was hoping to
have it for.
--
Jebu Ittiachen
j...@jebu.net


On Fri, Oct 22, 2010 at 6:13 PM, Rusty Klophaus  wrote:

> Hi Jebu,
>
> Inline fields are a partially implemented feature that we hope to expose
> soon, but are currently not supported. The basic idea, once released, is
> that marking a field in your schema as inline changes the way that field is
> stored in the index, allowing you to use the inline field to quickly filter
> results at the expense of a larger index.
>
> A good use case for this is a low cardinality field like "gender". Indexing
> on gender is useless, since roughly 50% will be male and 50% will be female.
> If you define gender as an inline field, Search will store the gender as a
> property in the index for other fields, and then rewrite the query
> appropriately. This is an advanced feature, but one that could lead to
> significant query performance boosts depending on the data model.
>
> Again, inline fields are not yet supported, but this is the general idea.
>
> Best,
> Rusty
>
> On Thu, Oct 21, 2010 at 1:43 AM, Jebu Ittiachen  wrote:
>
>> Hi,
>> I see references to inline fields in the riak search schema and search
>> code but dont see it documented anywhere. Nor does the parser seem to
>> support it. Could someone shed more light on this, from the implementation
>> in search\_op\_term looks like it could be very useful.
>>
>> --
>> Jebu Ittiachen
>> j...@jebu.net
>>
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>
>>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

