---
title: "Re: Rename riak bucket ; low speed on deletion."
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-09-19T23:28:59-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04791"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04755"
author_name: "Mike Oxford"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-09-19T23:28:59-07:00
---


You cannot rename buckets. Riak is "flat" KV store, and there is no
difference between a bucket and a key; they're just squished together
to form a single name.
As such, there is no "container," and this is also why getting all of
the keys in a bucket is so expensive (without a container, you're just
looking at the whole,entire, global space for your keys.)

You would have to manually go through and copy the data to the new
name and then delete the old object.

G'luck..

-mox


On Thu, Sep 15, 2011 at 11:49 AM, Jens Rantil  wrote:
> Hi Vicky,
>
>
>
> What client are you using? The protocol buffer API is generally way faster
> than using clients that are using the HTTP interface. Also, have you tried
> using multiple threads for deletion? That might give you a speed boost. The
> speed in riak lies partially in the fact that it is very concurrent. Also,
> try to spread the deletions over multiple physical nodes (if you have
> multiple nodes, that is).
>
>
>
> As to renaming a bucket, I haven't heard of it. But then again, I'm not a
> pro.
>
>
>
> Good luck!
>
>
>
> Regards,
>
> Jens
>
>
>
> Från: riak-users-boun...@lists.basho.com
> [mailto:riak-users-boun...@lists.basho.com] För Vicky Khanna
> Skickat: den 15 september 2011 13:51
> Till: riak-users@lists.basho.com
> Ämne: Rename riak bucket ; low speed on deletion.
>
>
>
> Hi,
>
>
>
> Can we by any chance rename riak bucket??
>
> Also Deletion all keys in a bucket is taking a lot of time:
>
> 30 secs for 10000 records which means 3 millisecs for 1 record.
>
> I am using java client to do this.
>
> Kindly tell if I can increase the speed or rename the bucket.
>
>
>
> Thanks in Advance
>
>
>
> Vicky Khanna
>
>
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

