---
title: "Re: data modeling question"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-09-21T05:22:16-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08621"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg08604"
author_name: "Rune Skou Larsen"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-09-21T05:22:16-07:00
---


The best data model always depends on the structure of data and the 
access pattern. The natural access pattern for your messages is likely 
lookup from two sides: sender and receiver. And you might need to 
support message expiry too. This means that you need on-disk indeces if 
you want more messages than will fit in memory.


In Riak you can do it quite simply with any of the ordered backends 
(leveldb, hanoidb, lowkeydb):


One message = one Riak object. Example: {sender='321', recipient='123', 
timestamp = 1234567, text= 'bla bla'}

Key is timestamp prefixed.
2i indeces for  and .
Consider using a compound index if you often distinguish between 
read/unread messages. For instance: \_


Example query returning keys for all unread messages belonging to 
recipient with id 123 using compound index:

http://myhost:8098/buckets/messages/index/recipient\_bin/unread\_123

Example query returning keys for all messages older than a year, so you 
can delete old messages (not necesary using backends with autoexpiry):

http://myhost:8098/buckets/messages/index/$key/0/2011-09-21


Here is an alternative approach: You can choose to optimize for the 
recipient side of the access pattern, by bulking all the messages for a 
given recipient in one Riak object. This is much faster that retrieving 
a large number of messages individually, the price being more difficult 
lookup from the sender side:

Key: recipient\_id
One Riak Object = all messages for a given recipient. Example: 
[{sender='321', timestamp = 1234567, text= 'bla bla'},{sender='456', 
timestamp = 1234569, text= 'bla bla2'}]

2i index for s

Example query returning an object with all messages belonging to 
recipient with id 123:

http://myhost:8098/buckets/messages/keys/123

If you want text search on for instance message content, you should 
consider using Riak Search.


- Rune

Trifork


Best regards / Venlig hilsen

\*Rune Skou Larsen\*
Trifork Public A/S / Team Riak
Margrethepladsen 4, 8000 Århus C, Denmark
Phone: +45 3160 2497 Skype: runeskoularsen twitter: @RuneSkouLarsen



On 20-09-2012 01:33, Charlie Bowman wrote:
I'm in the process of designing an in game messaging system that 
basically replicates the same functionality of email all within the 
context of the application. I do not have a ton of experience with 
true key/value db stores so I'm looking to find a good resource for 
ideas on how to best model this. I have a first version, but I dont 
want to reinvent the wheel if can help it. I've done the requisite 
googling, but haven't found anything relevant yet. Are there any 
guides/tutorials/open source projects that anyone knows of.


Thanks!




\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

