---
title: "Re: Unexpected issue w/ m/r Riak.reduceSlice"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-11-30T07:47:31-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05810"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg05795"
author_name: "Jonathan Langevin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-11-30T07:47:31-08:00
---


Based on a quite helpful tip from Sean via another thread, here's my
working solution :-)
It was indeed an issue with how batches were being processed, so running
the reduce phase as run-once, fixes the issue.

{
 "inputs":"demo\_3\_Course",
 "query":[
 {
 "map":{
 "keep":true,
 "language":"javascript",
 "arg":null,
 "source":"function(value){return [value.key];}"
 }
 },
 {
 "reduce":{
 "keep":true,
 "language":"javascript",
 "arg":{"sort":"function(a,b){
 if (a < b) {
 return -1;
 } else if (a === b) {
 return 0;
 } else if (a > b) {
 return 1;
 }
 }","slice":[80,85],"reduce\_phase\_only\_1":true},
 "source":"function(values,arg){return
Riak.reduceSlice(Riak.reduceSort(values,arg[\"sort\"]),arg[\"slice\"]);}"
 }
 }
 ]
}
\*


 
 Jonathan Langevin
Manager, Information Technology
Loom Inc.
Wilmington, NC: (910) 241-0433 - jlange...@loomlearning.com -
www.loomlearning.com - Skype: intel352
\*


On Tue, Nov 29, 2011 at 6:07 PM, Jonathan Langevin <
jlange...@loomlearning.com> wrote:

> I suppose I should instead stream the list of keys to client, slice keys
> in client, then fetch the objects, right?
> On Nov 29, 2011 5:21 PM, "Jonathan Langevin" 
> wrote:
>
>> When attempting to run m/r queries that execute Riak.reduceSlice to
>> create paginated result sets, I've found an unexpected result.
>>
>> For instance, if I call Riak.reduceSlice with start = 80, end = 85, which
>> you would expect to return 5 results (knowing that you have a total of 115
>> objects stored in Riak), you might instead get 16 objects returned back.
>> This is due to the logic of Riak.reduceSlice, which just returns the
>> results-thus-far when it finds that the end value (85) is greater than the
>> current length of value (16 objects).
>>
>> I suppose ultimately this is due to how Riak sends data in chunks between
>> phases (at least, that's my understanding)? So it happens to send a small
>> chunk of 16 results from the map phase to the reduce phase, and reduce
>> returns back the current "value" chunk since 16 results is less than 85
>> results...
>>
>>
>> How can I plan for this, so that I can ensure I'm getting the expected #
>> results back, and in fair context to the "page" of results that I should be
>> viewing?
>> And just a note, while I tested with & without sorted results, the final
>> code would be with sorted results that are then paginated.
>>
>>
>> Example data payload:
>> {
>> "inputs":"demo\_3\_Course",
>> "query":[
>> {
>> "map":{
>> "keep":false,
>> "language":"javascript",
>> "arg":null,
>> "source":"function(value){return [value.key];}"
>> }
>> },
>> {
>> "reduce":{
>> "keep":true,
>> "language":"javascript",
>> "arg":[
>> 80,
>> 85
>> ],
>> "name":"Riak.reduceSlice"
>> }
>> }
>> ]
>> }
>> \*
>>
>> 
>> Jonathan Langevin
>> Manager, Information Technology
>> Loom Inc.
>> Wilmington, NC: (910) 241-0433 - jlange...@loomlearning.com -
>> www.loomlearning.com - Skype: intel352
>> \*
>>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

