---
title: "Re: Inequality support in Riak Secondary indexes"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-01-11T19:40:15-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06253"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06244"
author_name: "Sreejith K"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-01-11T19:40:15-08:00
---


Hi Sean,

Thanks for your reply. I also had this idea of using range queries. The
only catch here is finding the minimum and maximum ranges for the query (if
the property is not "age"). Thanks for sharing your idea using ranges. I
will proceed with this.

--
Regards,

Sreejith K


On Wed, Jan 11, 2012 at 11:53 PM, Sean Cribbs  wrote:

> Sreejith,
>
> Some queries that include less-than/greater-than can also be expressed as
> ranges. Your example is simple because someone's age cannot be < 0, so age
> < 28 is equivalent 0 <= age <= 27, that is, age ranging from 0 to 27.
>
> Yes, currently 2i only works with LevelDB. Theoretically other backends
> can support it, but the feature has not been implemented on them yet.
>
> On Wed, Jan 11, 2012 at 12:37 PM, Sreejith K wrote:
>
>> Hi everyone,
>>
>> Its was a great news to know about Riak's support for secondary indexes.
>> That was a great work indeed!
>>
>> AFAIK, one will be able to index equality queries (property:value) and
>> range queries (property:[red TO rum]) as described in Riak website. But I
>> have some queries with inequality operators such as "<", ">", "<=", ">="
>> etc. For example, I need to search through a recods of users to find all
>> the users whose "age" is < 28 (I assume the record has "name", "age",
>> "address" properties stored using a username as the key).
>>
>> 1. Can I make use of secondary indexes for this kind of inequality
>> queries so that querying will be faster?
>> 2. If not, what should be the best way to solve this kind of situations
>> in Riak?
>> 3. Does 2i only work with LevelDB as backend storage?
>>
>> Thanks in advance :-)
>>
>> --
>> Regards,
>>
>> Sreejith K
>>
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>
>>
>
>
> --
> Sean Cribbs 
> Software Engineer
> Basho Technologies, Inc.
> http://basho.com/
>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

