---
title: "Re: System Limit Question"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-09-20T13:21:58-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04806"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04805"
author_name: "Jon Meredith"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-09-20T13:21:58-07:00
---


Hi TJ,

When you hit the issue, could you run these two commands on the riak console
(if riak is running as a daemon 'riak attach' to get to the console then ^D
to get out)

 length(erlang:ports()).
 length(erlang:processes()).

If ports is close to 4096 or ports to 32767 you'll need to up the limit in
vm.args.

Cheers,

Jon Meredith
Basho Technologies.

On Tue, Sep 20, 2011 at 2:13 PM, TJ Ninneman wrote:

> On our RHEL servers I've been noticing a lot of:
>
> Failed to merge ...
> {{badmatch,{error,system\_limit}},[{bitcask,scan\_key\_files,3},{bitcask,'merge1',3},{bitcask\_merge\_worker,do\_merge,1}]}
>
> This is a RHEL 6 / Riak 1.0 test cluster which has Riak running as root. I
> have not noticed this at all on our production 0.14.2 FreeBSD cluster.
>
> My ulimit -a output is as follows:
>
> core file size (blocks, -c) 0
> data seg size (kbytes, -d) unlimited
> scheduling priority (-e) 0
> file size (blocks, -f) unlimited
> pending signals (-i) 127400
> max locked memory (kbytes, -l) 64
> max memory size (kbytes, -m) unlimited
> open files (-n) 40560
> pipe size (512 bytes, -p) 8
> POSIX message queues (bytes, -q) 819200
> real-time priority (-r) 0
> stack size (kbytes, -s) 10240
> cpu time (seconds, -t) unlimited
> max user processes (-u) 1024
> virtual memory (kbytes, -v) unlimited
> file locks (-x) unlimited
>
> An lsof -p shows open files of around 3 - 5k during the merge and about
> 1,300 post fail. Anybody have an idea what system limit I may be hitting?
>
> Thanks!
>
> TJ
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

