---
title: "Re: Counting the number of items in a bucket"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-11-22T00:42:14-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05704"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg05698"
author_name: "Fyodor Yarochkin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-11-22T00:42:14-08:00
---


You can try to limit input by particular subset of ranges, if that
helps. Here's my count m-r snippet:

{
 "inputs":{
 "bucket":"data",
 "index":"numero\_int",
 "start":0,
 "end":1212
 },
 "query":[
 {"map": 
{"language":"erlang","module":"riak\_kv\_mapreduce","function":"map\_object\_value","arg":"filter\_notfound"}
 },
 {"reduce": {"language":"erlang",
"module":"riak\_kv\_mapreduce","function":"reduce\_count\_inputs","arg":"filter\_notfound"}}

 ], "timeout": 9000
}

hope it helps,
-fyodor



On Tue, Nov 22, 2011 at 3:26 AM, Stephen Bennett  wrote:
> I have a bucket which contains images refernced by a key which is made up
> from a guid. I have a number of servers in my cluster and my bucket is set
> up to store 3 versions of every item in the bucket across the servers in the
> cluster. I'd like to understand a little bit more about how my cluster is
> performing in terms of data storage. I can find out how much space each
> bitcask is currently taking up on each server, but I'd like to compare
> reference this against the number of unique keys that are being stored in
> the system.
>
> I've tried to use map-reduce methods using the erlang methods defined in the
> riak\_kv\_mapreduce, calling them against the HTTP interface but my queries
> are timing out. I've tried to extend the timeout, but it's still timing out.
>
> What's the most efficient way to find out how many keys exist in a
> particular bucket?
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

