---
title: "Re: bitcask 42?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-10-01T14:57:00-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01180"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg01175"
author_name: "Dan Reverri"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-10-01T14:57:00-07:00
---


The value of ring\_creation\_size dictates how many partitions your Riak
cluster will manage. These partitions are distributed amongst the nodes of
your cluster. Each node in the cluster with manage a portion of the ring (
ring\_creation\_size / number of nodes ). A larger ring means each node will
be responsible for more partitions which means each node will open more
files (ulimit -n).

Thanks,
Dan

Daniel Reverri
Developer Advocate
Basho Technologies, Inc.
d...@basho.com


On Fri, Oct 1, 2010 at 12:51 PM, Mojito Sorbet  wrote:

> On Fri, 2010-10-01 at 09:24 -0700, Dan Reverri wrote:
>
> > Projects will typically define an upper bound for a cluster's size
> > based on available datacenter space, available power, cost, etc.
> > Choosing a ring\_creation\_size value based on this upper bound will
> > allow you to start small and grow into your cluster.
>
> Ok, but these days there is no fixed size "data center". If I need more
> resources I can add them dynamically from Amazon or an equivalent cloud
> provider. If I accidentally create the next Facebook and it keeps
> growing, it would be nice not to have to backup and restore the whole
> thing as it grows into multiple hundreds of terrabytes, especially
> considering the downtime required.
>
> What is the penalty for making the ring size a lot bigger than the
> initial number of nodes would require?
>
>
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

