---
title: "Re: Erlang MR bulk fetch"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-02-06T07:32:15-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10019"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg09918"
author_name: "alexmoore"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-02-06T07:32:15-08:00
---


Well according to that wall of documentation, it seems that the "Converse"
varient backend only supports advanced array storage. I need support for
Erlang Binary formats. I wouldn't say it's any better than Hadoop, but then
again I haven't tried the Vans backend yet. 

--Alex


Mark Phillips-4 wrote
> How are these shoes better than Hadoop?
> 
> Mark
> 
> On Tuesday, January 29, 2013, liuhuan123 wrote:
> 
>> Today, a advanced array of Converse shoes are accessible for the
>> consumers.
>> They are trendy, affected and admirable and advised for altered sports
>> activities. Vans Shoes and sneakers are the absolute footwears that are
>> both
>> fashionable as able-bodied as adequate for users. If you are searching
>> for
>> the active shoe that is fabricated up of altered abstracts like printed
>> textiles, rubber, denim, covering and suede cloth, again Check More
>> <
>> http://converseso.com/goods-29-Converse-All-Star-Chuck-Taylor-Shoes-Hi-top-New-York-Map-Red.html
>> >
>> shoes is a absolute option. Although, Converse ireland shoes were
>> initially
>> affected by the sports legends like backward basketball amateur Chuck
>> Taylor, but now they accept become a accepted cast in the appearance
>> arena.
>> If you are a quick and an able agent again you would wish something added
>> from your shoe than just ablaze weight. This next shoe is ablaze weight
>> afterwards compromising on the cushioning aftereffect of the bottom bed.
>>
>>
>>
>> --
>> View this message in context:
>> http://riak-users.197444.n3.nabble.com/Erlang-MR-bulk-fetch-tp4026152p4026665.html
>> Sent from the Riak Users mailing list archive at Nabble.com.
>>
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> 

> riak-users@.basho

> <javascript:;>
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>
> 
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list

> riak-users@.basho

> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com





--
View this message in context: 
http://riak-users.197444.n3.nabble.com/Erlang-MR-bulk-fetch-tp4026152p4026775.html
Sent from the Riak Users mailing list archive at Nabble.com.

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

