---
title: "Re: Questions about installing Stanchion for Riak CS"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2016-05-23T09:32:06-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg17398"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg17397"
author_name: "Alex De la rosa"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2016-05-23T09:32:06-07:00
---


Hi Luke,

Ok, understood, what if I don't have a load balancer and the node having
Stanchion crashes? what will happen to the cluster and how to rebuild it?

Thanks,
Alex

On Mon, May 23, 2016 at 8:09 PM, Luke Bakken  wrote:

> Hi Alex,
>
> You should only have one active Stanchion process running in your
> cluster, since its purpose is to ensure consistent, ordered operations
> with regard to users and buckets. You can have a hot-backup if you
> configure a load balancer to proxy requests from the Riak CS
> processes.
> --
> Luke Bakken
> Engineer
> lbak...@basho.com
>
>
> On Sat, May 21, 2016 at 11:41 AM, Alex De la rosa
>  wrote:
> > Hi there,
> >
> > I'm creating a Riak CS cluster and I got some questions about the
> following
> > sentence from the documentation:
> >
> > Riak KV and Riak CS must be installed on each node in your cluster.
> > Stanchion, however, needs to be installed on only one node.
> >
> > Is this statement saying that only 1 node can have Stanchion? Or can it
> be
> > placed in more servers?.... like Riak KV and Riak CS must be in 5 out of
> 5
> > nodes but Stanchion can be in 1 to 5 out of 5 nodes?
> >
> > If is referring that ONLY 1 out of 5 nodes can have Stanchion and the
> other
> > 4 nodes are not allowed to have it installed, what happens if the
> "master"
> > node that has Stanchion crashes?
> >
> > Thanks and Best Regards,
> > Alex
> >
> > \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> > riak-users mailing list
> > riak-users@lists.basho.com
> > http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> >
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

