---
title: "Re: Raik 2.0.4 - Solr version"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-01-13T08:56:52-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15483"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15482"
author_name: "Sean Cribbs"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-01-13T08:56:52-08:00
---


All siblings (values in conflict, or as you say "versions") are indexed.

On Tue, Jan 13, 2015 at 10:30 AM, Santi Kumar  wrote:

> Sean,
> As at any given point of time, there could be multiple versions of a given
> entry in Riak, how does riak search manages that? Which version of the
> entry is indexed with solr?
>
> Thanks
> Santi
>
> On Tue, Jan 13, 2015 at 9:51 PM, Sean Cribbs  wrote:
>
>> The version of Solr bundled with Riak 2.0.4 is 4.7.0.
>>
>> I'm not sure what process would be required to bundle tokenizers and
>> analyzers, but I suspect it would be similar to how you deploy them with
>> stock Solr. Some tweaks may need to be made to load customizations.
>>
>> You cannot upgrade the Solr version by itself because we build a small
>> amount of custom code into Solr and we want to validate each upgrade before
>> shipping it. Since it uses some Solr-internal interfaces, we can't
>> guarantee that our customizations won't break on upgrade.
>>
>> The search is "planned" on the Riak side (which shards/cores to query,
>> etc) but executed by Distributed Solr. Search performance is good; Ryan
>> Zezeski benchmarked it extensively in its initial development. However, the
>> primary benefit of using Riak's Solr integration is the automatic
>> synchronization of your key-value data with the search indexes. As
>> key-value data gets written, handed off, or repaired, your search index is
>> automatically kept up-to-date via the same mechanism that keeps individual
>> replicas of the originals in sync.
>>
>> On Tue, Jan 13, 2015 at 8:19 AM, Bruno René Santos <
>> bruno-r-san...@telecom.pt> wrote:
>>
>>> Hello,
>>>
>>> I would like to know which solr version is bundled with riak 2.0.4 and
>>> if we have the freedom to create our own tokenizers and analyzers and
>>> integrate them on the solr instances. Is it possible to upgrade the Solr
>>> instance to a newer version?
>>>
>>> And how the search itself occurs? We query riak and riak will query each
>>> solr instance or we query solr and it will query all other solr instances?
>>> Our main concern is the overall search performance.
>>>
>>> Best Regards
>>> Bruno
>>>
>>>
>>>
>>>
>>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>>> riak-users mailing list
>>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>>
>>>
>>
>>
>> --
>> Sean Cribbs 
>> Sr. Software Engineer
>> Basho Technologies, Inc.
>> http://basho.com/
>>
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>
>>
>


-- 
Sean Cribbs 
Sr. Software Engineer
Basho Technologies, Inc.
http://basho.com/
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

