---
title: "Re: Packagecloud.io issue"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-04-01T12:27:06-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15948"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15933"
author_name: "Greg Cymbalski"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-04-01T12:27:06-07:00
---


Alex-
 We’ve managed to reproduce that issue and are researching it now. It does 
appear to be something in the package itself; not sure how that didn’t turn up 
until now.

 We’ll keep you updated. Thanks!
 —Greg

On Mar 30, 2015, at 9:00 AM, riak-users-requ...@lists.basho.com wrote:

> Date: Mon, 30 Mar 2015 11:55:41 +0200
> From: Alex De la rosa 
> To: riak-users 
> Subject: Packagecloud.io issue
> Message-ID:
> 
> Content-Type: text/plain; charset="utf-8"
> 
> Hi there,
> 
> I want to report again a problem I have with packagecloud.io; everytime I
> do "aptitude update" I get a hit as if a new version of Riak is available
> (that is not)... and I have to re-install Riak to a version I already have.
> 
> I just did an "aptitude safe-upgrade" and upgraded Riak to version 2.0.5
> (latest):
> 
> # aptitude safe-upgrade
> The following packages will be upgraded:
> ... ... ... riak ... ... ... ... ... ...
> [...]
> Unpacking riak (2.0.5-1) over (2.0.1) ...
> [...]
> 
> # riak version
> 2.0.5
> 
> # aptitude update
> Hit https://packagecloud.io trusty InRelease
> Hit https://packagecloud.io trusty/main Sources
> Hit https://packagecloud.io trusty/main amd64 Packages
> Hit https://packagecloud.io trusty/main i386 Packages
> 
> # aptitude safe-upgrade
> The following packages will be upgraded:
> riak
> 1 packages upgraded, 0 newly installed, 0 to remove and 0 not upgraded.
> Need to get 0 B/55.4 MB of archives. After unpacking 0 B will be used.
> Do you want to continue? [Y/n/?]
> 
> if i select Y i get the following:
> 
> Unpacking riak (2.0.5-1) over (2.0.5-1) ...
> 
> and everytime I check for updates, "riak" comes as requiring an update
> although is not true. How to fix that? makes no sense it continues coming
> as needing to be upgraded when is the same exact version.
> 
> Thanks,
> Alex
> -------------- next part --------------
> An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
> URL: 
> 

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

