---
title: "Re: Python client: Connection pool"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-06-25T07:36:28-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14371"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14368"
author_name: "Sean Cribbs"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-06-25T07:36:28-07:00
---


Alex,

No, it will only randomize the node when \*opening\* a connection. After
that, it just uses what is first available in the pool.

We have an outstanding plan to support auto-configuring clients, but that
work did not make it into the 2.0 cycle.


On Wed, Jun 25, 2014 at 7:18 AM, Alex De la rosa 
wrote:

> Hi there,
>
> Using the Python client, in the documentation I can read this:
>
> "The client maintains a connection pool behind the scenes, one for each
> protocol. Connections are opened as-needed; a random node is selected when
> a new connection is requested."
>
> Imagine that I create my connection like this:
>
> client = riak.RiakClient(protocol='pbc', nodes=[{'host':'X.X.X.1',
> 'http\_port':8098,'pb\_port':8087},{'host':'X.X.X.2','http\_port':8098,
> 'pb\_port':8087},{'host':'X.X.X.3','http\_port':8098,'pb\_port':8087},{'host'
> :'X.X.X.4','http\_port':8098,'pb\_port':8087},{'host':'X.X.X.5','http\_port'
> :8098,'pb\_port':8087}])
>
> Specifying the 5 servers in my cluster... Every time that do a request
> (PUT/GET/DELETE) is going to use a randomized host from the list? Also...
> what if for example I add server X.X.X.6 and X.X.X.7? do I have to manually
> edit my connection string to reflect those changes? Is there a way to
> automatically use any node in the cluster without having to specify them
> manually?
>
> Thanks,
> Alex
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>


-- 
Sean Cribbs 
Software Engineer
Basho Technologies, Inc.
http://basho.com/
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

