---
title: "Re: Counters inside Maps"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-08-19T15:39:53-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14750"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14748"
author_name: "Alex De la rosa"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-08-19T15:39:53-07:00
---


Hi Luc,

Thanks for your link to the documentation; that was exactly what I saw on
the data dump some time ago, didn't know it was published there :)

Just one question regarding your example in contrast with Sean's...

x.registers['name'].assign('Messi')
x.registers['name\_s'].assign('Messi')

You added "\_s" to the field while Sean removed it and said it will be
"name\_register" automatically... in your case would turn into
"name\_s\_register" I supposed, right?

Thanks!
Alex


On Wed, Aug 20, 2014 at 12:27 AM, Luc Perkins  wrote:

> Alex,
>
> Do you mean a map as in a Python dict or as in a Riak map? If you want to
> create \*footballers\* as a Riak map, skip to the \*Maps\* section in this doc
> . That
> provides a full tutorial for dealing with other Data Types, such as
> counters, within maps, and has Python code samples.
>
> If you're storing Python dicts as JSON in Riak, as in your example, you
> will have to GET the map from Riak and manipulate it client side. So if you
> wanted to add a \*goals\_i\* counter that starts at 0, you'd have to do
> something like this:
>
> \*obj = bucket.get('lionelmessi')\*
> \*obj.data['goals\_i'] = 0\*
> \*obj.store()\*
>
> To increment the counter, you could do so in a function like this:
>
> \*def increment(bucket, key, n):\*
> \* obj = bucket.get(key)\*
> \* obj['goals\_i'] = obj['goals\_i'] + n\*
> \* obj.store()\*
>
> That's of course a very rough example. But you can probably see from this
> example that using Riak maps can be a very nice option if you're using a
> data model that fits. Here's an example of storing your \*lionelmessi\* object
> as a Riak map:
>
> \*riak-admin bucket-type create maps '{"props":{"datatype":"map"}}'\*
> \*riak-admin bucket-type activate maps\*
>
> \*from riak.datatypes import Map\*
>
> \*bucket = client.bucket\_type('maps').bucket('footballers')\*
> \*messi\_map = Map(bucket, 'lionelmessi')\*
> \*messi\_map.registers['name\_s'].assign('Messi')\*
> \*messi\_map.registers['team\_s'].assign('Barcelona')\*
> \*messi\_map.registers['number\_i'].assign(str(10))\*
> \*messi\_map.counters['goals\_i'].increment()\*
> \*messi\_map.store()\*
>
> Luc
>
>
> On Tue, Aug 19, 2014 at 2:59 PM, Alex De la rosa 
> wrote:
>
>> Imagine I have a Riak object "footballer" with some static fields: name,
>> team, number. I store them like this now:
>>
>> 1: CREATE INDEX FOR RIAK SEARCH
>> curl -XPUT "http://148.251.140.229:8098/search/index/ix\_footballers"
>>
>> 2: CREATE BUCKET TYPE
>> riak-admin bucket-type create tp\_footballers
>> '{"props":{"allow\_mult":false,"search\_index":"ix\_footballers"}}'
>> riak-admin bucket-type activate tp\_footballers
>>
>> 3: INSERT A PLAYER
>> bucket = client.bucket\_type('tp\_footballers').bucket('footballers')
>> key = bucket.new('lionelmessi', data={'name\_s':'Messi',
>> 'team\_s':'Barcelona', 'number\_i':10}, content\_type='application/json')
>> key.store()
>>
>> 4: SEARCH FOR BARCELONA PLAYERS
>> r = client.fulltext\_search('ix\_footballers', 'team\_s:Barcelona')
>>
>> So far so good :) BUT... what if I want to have a field "goals\_i" that is
>> a counter that will be incremented each match day with the number of goals
>> he scored? What is the syntax/steps to do to set up "footballers" as a MAP
>> and then put a COUNTER inside? I know is possible as I read it in some data
>> dump some Basho employee passed me some time ago, but I can't manage to see
>> how to do it now.
>>
>> Thanks!
>> Alex
>>
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>
>>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

