---
title: "Re: Is Riak dead?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2017-07-14T17:06:06-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg18369"
author_name: "Outback Dingo"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2017-07-14T17:06:06-07:00
---


i see 0 issue with simply renaming the project, its still the same
software under the hood...... it cant be that hard to create an open
source fork under a different name and carry forward

On Fri, Jul 14, 2017 at 6:43 PM,  wrote:
> Perhaps we can get overview of legal issues and options here:
>
> http://www.softwarefreedom.org/services/
>
> Best,
>
> Lloyd
>
> -----Original Message-----
> From: "Russell Brown" 
> Sent: Friday, July 14, 2017 6:30pm
> To: "Dave King" 
> Cc: "Senthilkumar Peelikkampatti" , "riak-users" 
> 
> Subject: Re: Is Riak dead?
>
>
> On 14 Jul 2017, at 23:28, Dave King  wrote:
>
>> No, but I can read.
>
> I read it too. I’m not sure what your point is. A day may come when the name 
> has to change?
>
>>
>> - Peace
>> Dave
>>
>>
>> On Fri, Jul 14, 2017 at 4:27 PM, Russell Brown  wrote:
>>
>> On 14 Jul 2017, at 23:26, Dave King  wrote:
>>
>> > 6. Trademarks. This License does not grant permission to use the trade 
>> > names, trademarks, service marks, or product names of the Licensor, except 
>> > as required for reasonable and customary use in describing the origin of 
>> > the Work and reproducing the content of the NOTICE file.
>> >
>> > So At minimum I read that as there would need to be a new product name, 
>> > and the docs for that product could say formerly known as Riak.
>>
>> You are lawyer?
>>
>> >
>> > - Peace
>> > Dave
>> >
>> > On Fri, Jul 14, 2017 at 4:22 PM, Russell Brown  
>> > wrote:
>> >
>> > On 14 Jul 2017, at 23:17, Dave King  wrote:
>> >
>> > > Looks like Basho has the trademark on Riak.
>> > > http://www.trademarkia.com/riak-77954950.html
>> >
>> > They sure do. And if you look at the Apache2 license you’ll see that it 
>> > grants use of the name to identify the source.
>> >
>> > Look, I’m not a lawyer, and I’m guessing you’re not a lawyer. What 
>> > difference does the name or trademark make? There are a bunch of active 
>> > users of Riak, some of whom have made it clear they plan to continue using 
>> > it. Dance on Basho’s grave all you want, but Riak isn’t dead yet.
>> >
>> > >
>> > > - Peace
>> > > Dave
>> > >
>> > >
>> > > On Fri, Jul 14, 2017 at 4:08 PM, Alexander Sicular  
>> > > wrote:
>> > >
>> > >
>> > > > On Jul 14, 2017, at 11:32, Russell Brown  wrote:
>> > > >
>> > > > What do you mean “encumbered”? Riak is the name of an Apache2 licensed 
>> > > > open source database, so it can continue to be used to describe that 
>> > > > apache 2 licensed database, please don’t spread FUD.
>> > >
>> > > You willing to invest time in a project that could be legally encumbered 
>> > > at some point in the future because lawyers? You willing to put that 
>> > > beyond the clown fiesta that is Basho? I don't think so.
>> > > \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> > > riak-users mailing list
>> > > riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> > > http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>> > >
>> >
>> >
>>
>>
>
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

