---
title: "Re: Riak Data Type + Search"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-12-01T10:18:43-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15282"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15281"
author_name: "Taufan Adhitya"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-12-01T10:18:43-08:00
---


riakc\_pb\_socket:update\_type/4,5 is all i need. Thanks to both of you. Would
be helpful if it's also mentioned at
docs.basho.com/riak/latest/dev/search/search-data-types

Cheers,
Taufan

2014-12-02 0:44 GMT+07:00 Christopher Meiklejohn :

>
> > On Dec 1, 2014, at 12:28 PM, Taufan Adhitya 
> wrote:
> >
> > Hey Sean, thanks for the response.
> >
> > I was looking the documentation section you've pointed, but I'm stuck on
> Counters/Sets/Maps in the Erlang client are opaque data structures that
> collect operations as you mutate them. We will associate the data structure
> with a bucket type, bucket, and key later on. part. How do associate/save
> some datatype object on some bucket/key then?
>
> Hi Taufan,
>
> The link that Sean provided has information on how to create the bucket
> type. Taken from the included link:
>
> riak-admin bucket-type create maps '{"props":{"datatype":"map"}}'
>
> riak-admin bucket-type create sets '{"props":{"datatype":"set"}}'
>
> riak-admin bucket-type create counters
> '{"props":{"datatype":"counter"}}'
>
> I’ve also got a small riak\_test example which uses the Erlang client to
> create the bucket type and operate over a key. This might provide a good
> starting place to work from.
>
> For example:
>
> Creating a search index:
> https://github.com/basho/riak\_test/blob/master/tests/yz\_crdt.erl#L33
>
> Updating/creating a map with a register in it:
> https://github.com/basho/riak\_test/blob/master/tests/yz\_crdt.erl#L50
>
> Executing this with the client:
> https://github.com/basho/riak\_test/blob/master/tests/yz\_crdt.erl#L56
>
> Performing a search query with the client:
> https://github.com/basho/riak\_test/blob/master/tests/yz\_crdt.erl#L66
>
> - Chris
>
> Christopher Meiklejohn
> Senior Software Engineer
> Basho Technologies, Inc.
> cmeiklej...@basho.com
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

