---
title: "CorrugatedIron needs a new home"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-05-06T13:08:22-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14180"
author_name: "Jeremiah Peschka"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-05-06T13:08:22-07:00
---


At this point it's been 8 months since the last full release of
CorrugatedIron[1]. Development has continued since then, but the pace has
slowed down considerably.

## The Life Of A Consultant

As a consultant, you're called upon to be a deep specialist in one
technology.

OJ Reeves[2] and I started this project because we were both interested in
becoming specialists in Riak. We had similar experience. We both worked on
Microsoft platforms - OJ with C# and me with SQL Server.

As time passed, though, we both focused more and more on technologies that
weren't Riak. OJ veered off into security and I continued to dive deeper
into the world of SQL Server. Over time, our interests were pulled in other
directions.

It's difficult to find the time to work on an extracurricular project even
when everyone is interested in supporting the project. It's harder when you
both know that the other person's passions lie elsewhere.

## The State of the Game

As of today, we've implemented 80% of the features that are necessary to
support Riak 2.0 on the `develop` branch of CorrugatedIron. The project is
in relatively rough shape and neither one of us have committed code in
several months.

## Looking for Contributors

We couldn't have foreseen this when we started, or even even 6 months ago,
but both OJ and I are no longer able to actively maintain CorrugatedIron.

We're looking for contributors to help us with the maintenance and
development of CorrugatedIron. In short: \*\*CorrugatedIron needs a new
home\*\*.

Working on CorrugatedIron has been a lot of fun, but priorities have
changed and it's time to move on and leave full time development to folks
who have the time and energy to work on it.

If you're interested in picking on where we left off, email me at <
jeremiah.pesc...@gmail.com> and let me know that you're interested. I'm
more than happy to help make this transition happen smoothly and painlessly.

[1]: http://github.com/DistributedNonsense/CorrugatedIron
[2]: http://buffered.io/

---
Jeremiah Peschka - Managing Director, Brent Ozar Unlimited
MCSE: Data Platform, MVP
Cloudera Certified Developer for Apache Hadoop
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

