---
title: "Re: Configuring Riak 2.0"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-11-05T06:42:37-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12852"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12835"
author_name: "Chris Read"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-11-05T06:42:37-08:00
---


Glad someone there is thinking about configuration :D

Question - are you planning on making it just as easy to find out what the
\_running\_ configuration is? Currently I have to resort to the:

riak-attach
application:get\_all\_env(...).

incantation to find out settings riak is actually using at the time. While
I don't mind using attach, it's not always obvious what env you should be
asking for in the first place...

Thanks,

Chris


On Mon, Nov 4, 2013 at 11:36 AM, Joe DeVivo  wrote:

> Riak Users,
>
> We've been kind of tiptoeing around the configuration changes for Riak
> 2.0. Mostly it was because I wanted to have a dramatic reveal at
> RICON|West. Now that you can see that here (http://ricon.io/west2013.htmlDay 
> 1, Track 1, 7:08:22), it's time for me to talk to you all about
> configuration.
>
> A lot of what I want to say, I've already written in a cool blog post with
> fancy features like "syntax highlighting" and "hyperlinks". I encourage you
> to read my story here:
> https://github.com/joedevivo/ricon/blob/master/cuttlefish.md
>
> The biggest issue I have with the state of configuration in the 2.0 tech
> preview is the lack of documentation. Changing how we do configuration is
> going to affect almost all of the documentation. We're working on that
> already, but in the interim, here's a gist of mappings from old config
> style to new style: https://gist.github.com/joedevivo/7305410 I'll do my
> best to keep updating that gist as we make changes to the configuration
> settings.
>
> As you thumb through that gist, please note that some variable names in
> the 2.0 configuration file may change before release. Cuttlefish makes
> changing the names of these variables easy, and some names were just
> transposed from their Erlang counterparts. If you have a better name for
> some setting in Riak, please reach out to me. While I can't promise to use
> your suggestion, I'm always interested in how people are actually thinking
> about configuration.
>
> Stay rad,
> --joe
>
> ---
> Software Engineer at Basho
> @joedevivo
> jdev...@basho.com
> irc: joedevivo
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

