---
title: "Re: Riak and host names"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-02-08T12:18:21-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10052"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg09785"
author_name: "Deepak Balasubramanyam"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-02-08T12:18:21-08:00
---


Awesome. I'll make a pull request soon.

Thanks
-Deepak

On Sat, Feb 9, 2013 at 12:08 AM, Mark Phillips  wrote:

> Hi Deepak,
>
> On Fri, Feb 8, 2013 at 3:15 AM, Deepak Balasubramanyam
>  wrote:
> > Hi folks,
> >
> > After trying a couple of configurations, I'd recommend using a VPC on
> EC2. I
> > decided to share my experience with a wider audience and wrote about it
> on a
> > blog post. The post details (among other things) why VPC can make your
> life
> > much easier. Thank you again for all your suggestions.
> >
>
> Nice. Thanks for taking the time to write the post.
>
> > Is there a Riak wiki that I can contribute this information to ? It
> would be
> > easier for users to choose between deployment solutions if they know what
> > options are available.
> >
>
> Absolutely. All our docs are on GitHub [0] and we love (cherish)
> contributions. You'll probably want to add it to the Performance
> Tuning for AWS section [1], and at the very least we should have a
> link to the blog post.
>
> Thanks again.
>
> Mark
> twitter.com/pharkmillups
> A Riak Conference in NYC! -> ricon.io/east.html
>
> [0] https://github.com/basho/basho\_docs
> [1] http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/cookbooks/Performance-Tuning-AWS/
>
>
> > Thanks
> > -Deepak
> >
> >
> > On Sat, Jan 12, 2013 at 1:02 PM, Deepak Balasubramanyam
> >  wrote:
> >>
> >> Thanks for all the suggestions. I will take some time to review and try
> >> them out. I'll get back to this thread when I do.
> >>
> >> -Deepak
> >>
> >>
> >> On Thu, Jan 10, 2013 at 3:04 PM, Richard Shaw 
> wrote:
> >>>
> >>> Hi Matt,
> >>>
> >>> For stopping and starting rather than rebooting, you need to use
> >>> elastic IPs inside of Amazon's virtual private cloud[1] which allows
> >>> for persistent static private addresses.
> >>>
> >>> [1]http://aws.amazon.com/vpc/
> >>>
> >>> Regards
> >>>
> >>> Richard
> >>>
> >>> On Thu, Jan 10, 2013 at 6:09 AM, Matt Black  >
> >>> wrote:
> >>> > A quick update on this subject.
> >>> >
> >>> > Using an Elastic IP won't help with AWS since that only binds to the
> >>> > public
> >>> > interface - not the internal private one. The hostname command still
> >>> > returns
> >>> > the same internal IP address as before, which is what's seen by Riak.
> >>> >
> >>> > In AWS an internal IP address will actually persist across reboots.
> It
> >>> > does
> >>> > not persist across shutdown and startup.
> >>> >
> >>> >
> >>>
> >>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> >>> riak-users mailing list
> >>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> >>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> >>
> >>
> >
> >
> > \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> > riak-users mailing list
> > riak-users@lists.basho.com
> > http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> >
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

