---
title: "Re: Moving the anti-entropy directory (riak 1.4)"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-09-16T01:13:16-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16530"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16529"
author_name: "Sujay Mansingh"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-09-16T01:13:16-07:00
---


Thanks for confirming Magnus.

Hopefully all the disk-usage alerts will now be a thing of the past!

Sujay

On Tue, Sep 15, 2015 at 2:59 PM, Magnus Kessler  wrote:

> On 11 September 2015 at 11:45, Sujay Mansingh  wrote:
>
>> On our riak cluster machines, we have a separate disk which stores all
>> the bitcask data (in /data)
>>
>> This is so that we can have a (relatively) small disk for the OS, and
>> have a big disk for /data.
>>
>> $ df -h / /data
>> Filesystem Size Used Avail Use% Mounted on
>> /dev/root 20G 11G 7.9G 57% /
>> /dev/md3 3.6T 277G 3.1T 9% /data
>>
>> However, especially more so lately, we see that the /var/lib/riak
>> directory often becomes very large.
>>
>> $ pwd
>> /var/lib/riak
>> $ du -hcs \*
>> 9.3G anti\_entropy
>> 1.1M kv\_vnode
>> 104K ring
>> 9.3G total
>>
>> So we see that the anti\_entropy directory takes up 9.3GB (almost half of
>> /). (Sometimes it balloons to 18GB, almost taking up the disk. We then
>> restart riak to get the disk usage down.)
>>
>> I want to move that directory off /.
>>
>> Here are the steps I want to perform on each node.
>>
>> 1. Stop riak
>> 2. Move /data to /riak/data (I will have to change the name of the
>> mount point)
>> 3. Move /var/lib/riak/anti\_entropy to /riak/anti\_entropy
>> 4. Change the following items in app.config
>> - Change {anti\_entropy\_data\_dir, "/var/lib/riak/anti\_entropy"}, to 
>> {anti\_entropy\_data\_dir,
>> "/riak/anti\_entropy"},
>> - Change {data\_root, "/data"} to {data\_root, "/riak/data"}
>> 5. Start riak
>>
>> I just wanted to confirm that if I move the files and change the config,
>> riak will simply start up and continue as before.
>>
>>
> Hi Sujay,
>
> The steps you outlined are going to work fine. Please make sure that the
> newly created '/riak' directory has the correct file permissions for the
> 'riak' user.
>
> Regards,
>
> Magnus
>
>
>> Thanks!
>>
>> Sujay
>> ​
>>
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>
>>
>
>
> --
> Magnus Kessler
> Client Services Engineer @ Basho
>
> Registered Office - 8 Lincoln’s Inn Fields London WC2A 3BP Reg 07970431
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

