---
title: "Re: Issues with partition distribution across nodes"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2017-05-24T07:48:06-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg18239"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg18238"
author_name: "Russell Brown"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2017-05-24T07:48:06-07:00
---



On 24 May 2017, at 15:44, Denis  wrote:

> Hi Russell
> 
> Thank you for your suggestions. I found diag is saying: "The following 
> preflists do not satisfy the n\_val. Please add more nodes". It seems because 
> ring size (128) divided in 6 nodes is hard to arrange. 
> The history of our cluster is long story, cause we testing it in our lab. 
> Initially it was deployed with 5 nodes without issues. Then it was expanded 
> to 6 nodes, without issues again. After some time all storage space on whole 
> cluster was fully utilized and we had to remove all data from leveldb dir, 
> flush ring dir and rebuild cluster. This has been done by adding all 6 nodes 
> at one time, so this may be the case. We can try to flush cluster data once 
> again and then add nodes one by one (committing cluster change each time), 
> waiting to partition transfer to end each time.

Or add two more nodes in one go, might be quicker, and if time is money, 
cheaper.

> 
> 2017-05-24 15:44 GMT+03:00 Russell Brown :
> Hi,
> 
> This is just a quick reply since this is somewhat a current topic on the ML.
> 
> On 24 May 2017, at 12:57, Denis Gudtsov  wrote:
> 
> > Hello
> >
> > We have 6-nodes cluster with ring size 128 configured. The problem is that
> > two partitions has replicas only on two nodes rather than three as required
> > (n\_val=3). We have tried several times to clean leveldb and ring directories
> > and then rebuild cluster, but this issue is still present.
> 
> There was a fairly long discussion about this very issue recently (see 
> http://lists.basho.com/pipermail/riak-users\_lists.basho.com/2017-May/019281.html)
> 
> I ran a little code and the following {RingSize, NodeCount, IsViolated} 
> tuples were the result. If you built any of these clusters from scratch (i.e. 
> you started NodeCount nodes, and used riak-admin cluster join, riak-admin 
> cluster plan, riak-admin cluster commit to create a cluster of NodeCount from 
> scratch) then you have tail violations in your ring.
> 
> [{16,3,true},
> {16,5,true},
> {16,7,true},
> {16,13,true},
> {16,14,true},
> {32,3,true},
> {32,5,true},
> {32,6,true},
> {32,10,true},
> {64,3,true},
> {64,7,true},
> {64,9,true},
> {128,3,true},
> {128,5,true},
> {128,6,true},
> {128,7,true},
> {128,9,true},
> {128,14,true},
> {256,3,true},
> {256,5,true},
> {256,11,true},
> {512,3,true},
> {512,5,true},
> {512,6,true},
> {512,7,true},
> {512,10,true}]
> 
> 
> > How can we diagnose where the issue is and fix it?
> 
> WRT your problem, a quick experiment looks like adding 2 new nodes will solve 
> your problem, just adding one doesn’t look like it does. I tried just adding 
> one new node and still had a single violated preflist, but I have just thrown 
> a little experiment together so I could well be wrong. It doesn’t actually 
> build any clusters, and uses the claim code out of context, ymmv
> 
> > Is there any way how we
> > can assign partition to node manually?
> 
> I don’t know of a way, but that would be very useful.
> 
> Do you remember if this cluster was built all at once as a 6-node cluster, or 
> has it grown over time? Have you run the command riak-admin diag 
> ring\_preflists as documented here 
> http://docs.basho.com/riak/kv/2.2.3/setup/upgrading/checklist/#confirming-configuration-with-riaknostic?
> 
> Sorry I can’t be more help
> 
> Cheers
> 
> Russell
> 
> >
> > Please find output of member-status below and screen from riak control ring
> > status:
> > [root@riak01 ~]# riak-admin member-status
> > ================================= Membership
> > ==================================
> > Status Ring Pending Node
> > -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
> > valid 17.2% -- 'riak@riak01.
> > valid 17.2% -- 'riak@riak02.
> > valid 16.4% -- 'riak@riak03.
> > valid 16.4% -- 'riak@riak04.
> > valid 16.4% -- 'riak@riak05.
> > valid 16.4% -- 'riak@riak06.
> > -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
> > Valid:6 / Leaving:0 / Exiting:0 / Joining:0 / Down:0
> >
> > 
> >
> > Thank you.
> >
> >
> >
> > --
> > View this message in context: 
> > http://riak-users.197444.n3.nabble.com/Issues-with-partition-distribution-across-nodes-tp4035179.html
> > Sent from the Riak Users mailing list archive at Nabble.com.
> >
> > \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> > riak-users mailing list
> > riak-users@lists.basho.com
> > http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> 
> 


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

