---
title: "Re: Keys not listed during vnode transfers"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-03-14T16:01:30-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10449"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg10376"
author_name: "Daniel Iwan"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-03-14T16:01:30-07:00
---


Maybe someone from Basho could shed some light on that issue?

Regards
Daniel


On 12 March 2013 11:55, Daniel Iwan  wrote:

> Just to add to that.
> Further test shows that 2i searches aso suffer form the problem of not
> showing all results durring active vnode transfer.
> Is this a known issue with Riak 1.2.1? Has it been solved in 1.3?
>
> Anyone else experienced that? I guess attaching a node would trigger that
> as well, maybe in less severe way.
> Also I've read somewhere that you should attach one node at a time to Riak
> cluster, and wait until vnode transfer completes.
> I think it's no longer true in 1.2 since you have a plan that you commit,
> but attaching a node and shuffling vnodes will cause problem described
>
> What is the solution here? Waiting until vnode transfer finishes is not
> acceptable (availability) and recent findings show it may take a while on
> big clusters.
>
> Regards
> Daniel
>
>
>
> On 11 March 2013 23:06, Daniel Iwan  wrote:
>
>> I'm aware that listing keys is not for production.
>> I'm using it mainly during testing, which started to be unreliable after
>> changes described above.
>>
>> What I was not expecting at all was that some of the keys won't be listed.
>> I'm not sure if that is stated in documentation to tell the truth.
>> To me it looks like it should be called 'listSomeKeys'
>>
>> About alternatives.
>> Some time ago I did comparison of listing and 2i and MapReduce and
>> surprisingly listing was quickest.
>> I'm not sure why it was happening. I did similar tests today and what I
>> got is:
>>
>> 1000 keys, grouped with 2i into 10 equal groups, each value < 1kB
>> Listing:
>> - via listkeys 276ms
>> - via keyindex $key: 255ms
>> - via 2i (10 calls), total 2480ms
>>
>> So for that simple case 2i is 10 times slower.
>> Further test shows that 100k keys (100 groups, 1000 each) gives query
>> response between 250-5500ms.
>> Not good. It's almost silly NOT to use listing keys.
>>
>> I may need to do that test on different hardware to compare. At the
>> moment I'm using just one 7200rpm HDD for Riak db.
>>
>> Daniel
>>
>>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

