---
title: "Re: RiakCS usage data not found"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-12-11T07:03:42-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13211"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13201"
author_name: "Hector Castro"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-12-11T07:03:42-08:00
---


Gavin,

After some more digging, it looks like the issue you're facing is an
open issue against Riak CS:

https://github.com/basho/riak\_cs/issues/746

A pull request for the issue has been supplied and will be in the next release:

https://github.com/basho/riak\_cs/pull/747

--
Hector


On Wed, Dec 11, 2013 at 5:22 AM, Gavin Huang  wrote:
> Thanks Hector
> I actually did the same steps as you mentioned expect I run Riak-CS in a
> real virtual machine.
>
> When I looking into the error log of Riak-CS when I doing riak-cs-access
> flush an error was thrown (when doing other file operations are fine):
>
> 2013-12-11 10:14:56.442 [error] <0.12276.0> gen\_fsm <0.12276.0> in state
> idle terminated with reason: bad argument in gen\_fsm:send\_event/2 line 198
> 2013-12-11 10:14:56.442 [error] <0.12276.0> CRASH REPORT Process <0.12276.0>
> with 0 neighbours exited with reason: bad argument in gen\_fsm:send\_event/2
> line 198 in gen\_fsm:terminate/7 line 611
>
> when doing riak-cs-storage batch no error was thrown with this message:
>
> 2013-12-11 10:13:46.097 [info] <0.286.0>@riak\_cs\_storage\_d:calculating:150
> Finished storage calculation in 0 seconds.
>
>
> I tried Riak-CS-1.4.0 and latest Riak-CS, both get no luck. was that some
> configuration issue?
>
> Thanks.
> Gavin
>
>
>
> On Mon, Dec 9, 2013 at 10:08 PM, Hector Castro  wrote:
>>
>> Hi Gavin,
>>
>> How have you configured your `storage\_schedule`? It's possible that
>> the job for calculating storage statistics hasn't occurred (or
>> finished) yet.
>>
>> You can manually trigger storage usage calculation by invoking the
>> following command:
>>
>> sudo riak-cs-storage batch
>>
>> From there, you can retrieve statistics from the `usage` bucket with
>> `s3cmd`:
>>
>> s3cmd get
>> s3://riak-cs/usage/.abj.20130501T000000Z.20130531T000000Z
>>
>> Also, here is a script I wrote up to access usage and storage
>> statistics with `s3cmd`:
>>
>> https://gist.github.com/hectcastro/126b5657f228096775c6
>>
>> --
>> Hector
>>
>>
>> On Mon, Dec 9, 2013 at 1:25 AM, Gavin Huang 
>> wrote:
>> > BTW, what I can see from the riak-cs log is:
>> >
>> > 2013-12-09 22:04:40.836 [error] <0.17758.42> No WM route: 'GET'
>> >
>> > /riak-cs/usage/GRRYE2NHIXTNPFP89NMJ/abj/20131210T000000Z/20131210T160000Z
>> > {5,{"x-amz-date",{"X-Amz-Date","Mon, 09 Dec 2013 06:10:17
>> > +0000"},{"authorization",{'Authorization',"AWS
>> >
>> > MESG2VCANJVU7XTX-9YC:K7v4mFdvvAZ8a5LJHqfc/TZLy/w="},{"accept-encoding",{'Accept-Encoding',"identity"},nil,nil},{"host",{'Host',"riak-cs.s3.amazonaws.com:8080"},nil,nil}},{"x-rcs-rewrite-path",{"x-rcs-rewrite-path","/riak-cs/usage/GRRYE2NHIXTNPFP89NMJ/abj/20131210T000000Z/20131210T160000Z"},nil,nil}}}
>> >
>> >
>> >
>> > On Mon, Dec 9, 2013 at 10:50 AM, Gavin Huang 
>> > wrote:
>> >>
>> >> Hi,
>> >> I'm trying to get the usage and access statistics from Riak-CS.
>> >> I configured "storage\_schedule"(restarted riak-cs), I manually start
>> >> riak-cs-storage (it takes a while first time, but getting more quick
>> >> afterwards).
>> >>
>> >> I tried to access the storage via s3cmd:
>> >> s3cmd get s3://riak-cs/usage/[adminkey]
>> >> s3cmd get s3://riak-cs/usage/[adminkey]/aj
>> >> s3cmd get
>> >> s3://riak-cs/usage/[adminkey]/abj/20131201T140000Z/20131210T160000Z
>> >>
>> >> all request get the response of:
>> >> ERROR: S3 error: 404 (Object Not Found):
>> >>
>> >> is there anything I missed?
>> >>
>> >> Thanks.
>> >> Gavin
>> >
>> >
>> >
>> > \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> > riak-users mailing list
>> > riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> > http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>> >
>
>

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

