---
title: "Re: The best (fastest) way to delete/clear a bucket [python]"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-05-19T15:26:20-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14239"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14238"
author_name: "Dmitri Zagidulin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-05-19T15:26:20-07:00
---


Ah, that's interesting, let's see if we can test this.

The 'delete\_mode' configuration is not supported in the regular riak.conf
file, from what I understand.
However, you can still set it in the 'advanced.config' file, as described
here:
https://github.com/basho/basho\_docs/blob/features/lp/advanced-conf/source/languages/en/riak/ops/advanced/configs/configuration-files.md#the-advancedconfig-file
(those docs are a current work-in-progress, mind you)

So, create an advanced.config file in your riak etc/ directory (this will
be in addition to your existing riak.conf), with the following contents:
[
 {riak\_kv, [
 {delete\_mode, immediate}
 ]}
].

Restart the node, and try your tests again. The tombstones should disappear
now on every delete request. (You should probably also wipe all of the old
data, by deleting the contents of the bitcask and anti\_entropy directories
in your riak data dir, just to make sure the old ones are gone. This should
be done while the node is down, of course.)



On Mon, May 19, 2014 at 4:33 PM, Paweł Królikowski wrote:

> The problem is that the tombstones never disappear - they keep coming back
> through bucket.get\_keys() hours after deletion, even after a restart.
>
> I said I'm using the delete\_mode default configuration, because I didn't
> change it. I now tried, and apparently it's not supported any more in Riak
> 2.0.
>
> 17:16:56.318 [error] You've tried to set delete\_mode, but there is no
> setting with that name.^M
> 17:16:56.318 [error] Did you mean one of these?^M
> 17:16:56.335 [error] dtrace^M
> 17:16:56.335 [error] nodename^M
> 17:16:56.335 [error] ssl.keyfile^M
> 17:16:56.335 [error] Error generating configuration in phase
> transform\_datatypes^M
> 17:16:56.335 [error] Conf file attempted to set unknown variable:
> delete\_mode^M
> Error generating config with cuttlefish
>
> I'm using Riak 2.0.0pre20, on strongly consistent buckets, on a single
> node cluster. Can this be the reason? I guess what I need is a confirmation
> that something is broken/that I'm doing something stupid.
>
> I've tried looking for similar issues (github.com/basho/riak/issues),
> didn't find any -> I guess that suggests I'm doing something stupid, I just
> don't know what yet.
>
>
> Thanks again :)
>
> --
> Paweł
>
>
> On 19 May 2014 18:00, Dmitri Zagidulin  wrote:
>
>> Ah, yes, you bring up a good point. (And, that's another subtlety to keep
>> in mind, with Option #1).
>>
>> Tombstones are definitely something to keep in mind, when deleting unit
>> test data.
>> As you mentioned in your earlier question, if you're using default
>> delete\_mode configuration ( 3 seconds ), it means that if you issue a
>> delete, a tombstone object is going to be written (and stick around for at
>> least 3 seconds), and unfortunately, it is going to show up as a false
>> positive on a List Keys call.
>>
>> The easiest thing to try, in your case, is to set 'delete\_mode' to
>> 'immediate', restart the test cluster, and retest. With an immediate
>> delete, your second test with 10 keys should not take as long as the
>> previous delete with 10000 keys.
>>
>>
>>
>>
>> On Mon, May 19, 2014 at 11:46 AM, Paweł Królikowski wrote:
>>
>>> Hi Dmitri,
>>>
>>> Thanks a lot for the answer. Option #1 seems the best, but I have a
>>> follow up question:
>>>
>>> - when do the deleted keys disappear from Riak: a part of my problem
>>> (have not explained it correctly the first time), is that get\_keys()
>>> returns keys that no longer exist. So, I run a test with 10 000 keys, I
>>> remove them, it takes Nseconds. I then follow with a test with 10 keys, but
>>> removing them takes just as much time - I imagine it's because I'm going
>>> over that 10 000 keys again.
>>>
>>> This article seems relevant:
>>> http://basho.com/riaks-config-behaviors-part-3/ - it seems like the
>>> tombstones simply remain in my system indefinitely.
>>>
>>> --
>>> Paweł
>>>
>>>
>>> On 19 May 2014 15:32, Dmitri Zagidulin  wrote:
>>>
>>>> Hi Pawel,
>>>>
>>>> There's basically three ways to clear data from Riak (for the purposes
>>>> of automated testing):
>>>>
>>>> 1. Iterate through the keys via get\_keys(), and delete each one. This
>>>> is what you're currently doing, except you don't need to invoke 
>>>> if.exists().
>>>> if.exists() makes an additional API call to Riak, and it takes twice as
>>>> long as just calling delete() (and trapping a potential 404 doesn't exist
>>>> error).
>>>>
>>>> Advantages: Easy to understand, can be done entirely in code (without
>>>> invoking OS/shell commands).
>>>>
>>>> Disadvantages: It can get slow, for large data sets. Another subtle
>>>> disadvantage is that, as your app grows, it can get difficult to keep track
>>>> of which buckets you've created and need to be cleared.
>>>>
>>>> 2. Stop the Riak cluster, delete the riak data directory, and re-start.
>>>>
>>>> Advantages: Very fast, and you can be sure that you're deleting all
>>>> buckets.
>>>>
>>>> Disadvantages: Involves invoking OS/shell commands. This is fairly easy
>>>> if your Riak node is running on the same machine as your tests (and if it's
>>>> a single node). To delete the data directories of a multi-node cluster, now
>>>> you need to involve either a bash script that uses SSH to log in and
>>>> restart, or a coordination framework like Ansible.
>>>>
>>>> 3. Use an in-memory back end. (And to drop all data, just restart the
>>>> node(s)).
>>>>
>>>> Advantages: Same as #2 - fast, thorough.
>>>>
>>>> Disadvantages: Same as #2 (involves shell commands, potentially SSH
>>>> etc). In addition, since you're likely not going to be running your
>>>> production code on an in-memory back end, this method introduces a
>>>> potential environmental/functional difference between your testing and
>>>> production clusters.
>>>>
>>>> I generally use method #1 in my unit tests, and manually delete each
>>>> key.
>>>>
>>>> Dmitri
>>>>
>>>>
>>>>
>>>> On Mon, May 19, 2014 at 8:53 AM, Paweł Królikowski 
>>>> wrote:
>>>>
>>>>> Hi,
>>>>>
>>>>> For testing, I'd like to be able to throw a large number of data at
>>>>> Riak (100k+ entries), check how it performed, change something in the
>>>>> application, run the test again. I'd like to use the same data every time,
>>>>> so, I'd like to clear the bucket between every test.
>>>>>
>>>>> The documentation (
>>>>> http://docs.basho.com/riak/2.0.0beta1/dev/references/http/) says:
>>>>>
>>>>> \*Delete Buckets\*
>>>>> There is no straightforward way to delete an entire Bucket. To delete
>>>>> all the keys in a bucket, you’ll need to delete them all individually.
>>>>>
>>>>>
>>>>> So, I'm currently using something like:
>>>>>
>>>>> for k in r\_bk.get\_keys():
>>>>> v = r\_bk.get(k)
>>>>> if v.exists:
>>>>> r\_bk.delete(v)
>>>>>
>>>>> The problem is that r\_bk.get\_keys() returns a lot of elements that
>>>>> don't exist (tombstones?) and iterating over all of them takes time.
>>>>>
>>>>> Is that the way it's supposed to work? Or am I missing something?
>>>>>
>>>>> - I'm using default delete\_mode configuration ( 3 seconds )
>>>>> - I'm using Riak 2.0 alpha 19 with Python. ( there's a bug with strong
>>>>> consistency in Beta1, cannot use it)
>>>>> - changing the bucket name for every run seems .. impractical?
>>>>>
>>>>> Any advices welcomed,
>>>>>
>>>>> --
>>>>> Thanks,
>>>>> Paweł
>>>>>
>>>>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>>>>> riak-users mailing list
>>>>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>>>>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>>>>
>>>>>
>>>>
>>>
>>
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>
>>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

