---
title: "Help with local restore for dev enviroment"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-07-09T14:26:24-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11430"
author_name: "Mark Wagner"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-07-09T14:26:24-07:00
---


Hey all,

I'm new to riak and I'm working on an ETL script that needs to pull data
from a riak cluster.

My client has sent me a backup from one of their cluster nodes. bitcask
data,. rings and config.

Here is what I am doing: on OSX

# Install riak on my local OSX development box
brew install riak

#goto the default data directory setup by brew
cd ~/Developer/Cellar/riak/1.3.1-x86\_64/libexec/data/

# create a bitcask directory and copy the bitcask data into it
mkdir bitcask
cd bitcask
cp -r ~/Downloads/riak/var/lib/riak/bitcask/\* ./

#goto the ring directory and copy the ring data into it
cd ../ring
cp -r ~/Downloads/riak/var/lib/riak/ring/\* ./

#goto the etc directory, delete pem files, copy over the pem files from
backup
cd ../../etc/
rm \*.pem
cp ~/Downloads/riak/etc/riak/\*.pem ./

I do not believe I need to make any changes to the default vm.args or
app.config files installed by brew.

#run the riak-admin reip command since the hostname is different
riak-admin reip r...@staging1.sjc1.xxxxx.net riak@127.0.0.1

At this point I believe I should be able to start riak and browse the data.
 Is this correct?
How can I verify, that riak see's the data?
I have no idea of the structure of the data how can I determine the
structure?

Thanks for your help,

Mark






-- 
Mark Wagner, Web & Mobile Developer
\*:coderow\*
\*Web & mobile application development for business\*
m: 480.580.1261 | o: 612.293.9090
www.coderow.com |
m...@coderow.com
 | @thesociableme
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

