---
title: "Google Summer of Code for Lasp"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2017-03-31T01:52:54-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg18111"
author_name: "Christopher Meiklejohn"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2017-03-31T01:52:54-07:00
---


There's only a few days left to apply, but we're looking for more
students to come be part of the Google Summer of Code project for
Lasp.

In terms of proposals, I'm happy to help any eager students who are
interested in submitting something write a proposal.

For ideas, we've got a lot of things that are interesting happening:

\* I'd like to see someone bring SSL/TLS support to our partisan
library -- partisan is a highly scalable work-in-progress replacement
for distributed Erlang for edge and mobile computing.

\* We've got a newish work-in-progress report out on our Loquat system
-- recently presented at Erlang Factory 2016 in SF -- and we've love
to have students help us build out a first functioning prototype of
the system and evaluate it.

\* Documentation: help us write documentation about how to use Lasp
from Erlang and Elixir.

\* Finally, we'd love to see some students work on building real
applications in Lasp: we've got several ideas for applications, but
haven't had time to implement them yet. (Ideally, we'd love to see
these example applications in Elixir and Erlang!)

Last year was super fun: not only did we have great success with two
student projects, one of them resulted in a draft paper and
presentation at the AGERE! workshop located at ACM's SPLASH
conference.

[Working on open source, on a research project, where your results
will possibly contribute to a conference paper and you as co-author,
not bad!]

Please reach out, and I'm looking forward to your submissions!

Thanks,
Christopher Meiklejohn

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

