---
title: "Re: [ANN] Riak 1.4.8"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-02-25T21:40:15-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13710"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13679"
author_name: "Toby Corkindale"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-02-25T21:40:15-08:00
---


Hi,
After upgrading to 1.4.8 in staging, last week, we've been seeing a
fairly constant extra amount of riak hits in the stats. Consistently
300-400 a minute. Can get lost in the much higher, varying levels
during busy hours, but outside of that it's quite visible as a
baseline.
The logs show a lot of AAE work going on.

I wondered if this was normal behaviour of Riak cleaning up the
AAE-related bug from earlier versions, and will go away eventually? Or
that unlikely?
I emphasize that there's no significant server load resulting from
this -- I'm just curious if it's something I need to look into or not.

Cheers,
Toby


On 21 February 2014 04:00, Tom Santero  wrote:
> Hi,
>
> Today, Basho released a minor update of Riak and Riak Enterprise Edition,
> version 1.4.8. This bug-fix release addresses a regression[0] in Riak's
> active anti-entropy (AAE) system. The regression existed in versions 1.4.3
> through 1.4.7.
>
> The complete release notes[1] and package downloads[2] are now available.
>
> Thanks for being the best community ever.
>
> Regards,
> The Basho Team
>
> [0]
> http://lists.basho.com/pipermail/riak-users\_lists.basho.com/2014-January/014551.html
> [1] https://github.com/basho/riak/blob/1.4/RELEASE-NOTES.md
> [2] http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/downloads/
>
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>



-- 
Turning and turning in the widening gyre
The falcon cannot hear the falconer
Things fall apart; the center cannot hold
Mere anarchy is loosed upon the world

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

