---
title: "Re: [ANN] Riak 2.0pre1"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-01-20T12:52:50-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13415"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13412"
author_name: "Russell Brown"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-01-20T12:52:50-08:00
---



On 20 Jan 2014, at 20:35, Elias Levy  wrote:

> On Mon, Jan 20, 2014 at 12:14 PM, Russell Brown  wrote:
> Longer answer: Riak gave users the option of client or \_vnode\_ ids in version 
> vectors. By default Riak uses vnode ids. Riak erred on the side of caution, 
> and would create false concurrency, rather than lose writes. 
> 
> I am curious as to how that was accomplished when using vnode version 
> vectors. As section 3.2 of the paper mentions, the node with concurrent 
> updates could detect they are concurrent and it could reject the update, but 
> how could you encode the causal history using the version vectors so as to 
> generate a sibling? That section ends with a statement saying no such 
> version vector could be generated.
> 
> Presumably Riak implemented a version vector that is somewhat different from 
> that described in the paper?

I guess you must be right. Riak’s vnode version vectors, in the case described 
in 3.2 would generate siblings. The put of `v` with an empty VV would lead to 
the value `v` and VV {b, 1}, but the put of `w` with no VV would not lead to a 
VV of {b, 2} and overwriting of {b, 1}=`v`.

What Riak does is this: look at the incoming VV, and increment it (so {b, 
1}=`w` for that second client put) read the state on disk ({b, 1}=`v`) realise 
that these values are concurrent (the incoming value does not dominate the 
local value), so keep them both, and generate a VV that dominates ({b, 2}=`v`, 
`w`).

Does that answer your question?

Cheers

Russell

> 

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

