---
title: "RE: Riak 1.3 YCSB Read Time Out"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-07-12T08:25:56-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11505"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg11502"
author_name: "Nika Abramova"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-07-12T08:25:56-07:00
---


Thank you for reply. Of course I can try new version but will I be able to run 
YCSB for 1.3 over 1.4? This is my concern. What is the minimal RAM required for 
Riak to work correctly? I mean, what I am doing is inserting 100.000 records at 
once. 
Regards, Veronika

Date: Fri, 12 Jul 2013 16:07:23 +0100
From: guido.med...@temetra.com
To: riak-users@lists.basho.com
Subject: Re: Riak 1.3 YCSB Read Time Out


 
 
 
 
 Hi Veronika,

 

 Riak 1.4.0 was released yesterday, with the new streaming features
 nodes will stream keys to you instead of working with the whole
 result in memory, which will probably avoid the timeout.

 

 Though your RAM and specially using a VM could be a limiting factor,
 still worthy a try.

 Once your node is up type riak-admin diag and see if some parameters
 need to be adjusted.

 

 For more information on tuning:
 http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/cookbooks/Linux-Performance-Tuning/

 

 HTH,

 

 Guido.

 

 On 12/07/13 14:58, Nika Abramova wrote:

 
 
 
 Greetings,
 I am currently testing different NoSQL databases and now I
 was starting Riak. I downloaded and installed Riak 1.3 and was
 executing YCSB over it. But after some time (40 sec) of
 loading data, I got "Read timed Out" exception. 
 How can I solve it? I am working locally, on same machine
 so my connection is to localhost. Is that lack of RAM that
 causing that? Since I am using VM and I only have 2GB RAM for
 it. Or it is something else I can configure?
 

 
 Regards, Veronika
 
 

 
 

 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

 
 

 


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com 
 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

