---
title: "Re: [ANN] riak-js v0.10.0"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-05-05T09:37:11-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11029"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg11027"
author_name: "José Ghislain Quenum"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-05-05T09:37:11-07:00
---


Mathias,
I found out what was causing the problem on my side. It was my new ID generator 
that was messing things up. I will keep testing though. If I come across any 
weird behavior with saving data I will file an issue
Thanks again
On May 5, 2013, at 5:29 PM, Mathias Meyer  wrote:

> José,
> 
> Could you file an issue [1] describing the problems you've been seeing?
> 
> Thank you!
> 
> Cheers, Mathias
> 
> [1] https://github.com/mostlyserious/riak-js/issues/new
> 
> 
> 
> On Sunday, 5. May 2013 at 17:24, José Ghislain Quenum wrote:
> 
>> is this just me or has anyone else experienced some weird behavior trying to 
>> save data into riak using riak-js? My updates are all of a sudden 
>> misbehaving.
>> I upgraded to 0.10.0 since friday night
>> 
>> On May 4, 2013, at 2:43 PM, José Ghislain Quenum 
>>  wrote:
>> 
>>> Hi Mathias,
>>> I didn't use any debug flag. I just did it again and it still created a 
>>> Debug folder instead of Release. Maybe it's my node\_gyp> I need to check. 
>>> Has anyone else experienced this?
>>> BTW I am using OS X Mountain Lion
>>> José
>>> On May 4, 2013, at 12:24 PM, Mathias Meyer  wrote:
>>> 
>>>> José,
>>>> 
>>>> Do you use any debug flags for npm of sorts?
>>>> 
>>>> I just tried a fresh install, and npm compiled the library into the 
>>>> Release folder.
>>>> 
>>>> Cheers, Mathias
>>>> 
>>>> 
>>>> 
>>>> On Saturday, 4. May 2013 at 12:01, José Ghislain Quenum wrote:
>>>> 
>>>>> in node\_modules in my project inside 
>>>>> riak-js/niode\_modules/protobuf.js/node\_modules/wtf8/wtf8.js 
>>>>> 
>>>>> var wtf8 = require('./build/Release/wtf8.node');
>>>>> 
>>>>> but there is no Release folder. Only Debug
>>>>> 
>>>>> 
>>>>> On May 3, 2013, at 9:15 PM, Mathias Meyer  wrote:
>>>>> 
>>>>>> José,
>>>>>> 
>>>>>> Could you elaborate a bit more on that? Not sure I fully understand what 
>>>>>> you mean.
>>>>>> 
>>>>>> Thanks!
>>>>>> 
>>>>>> Cheers, Mathias
>>>>>> 
>>>>>> 
>>>>>> 
>>>>>> On Friday, 3. May 2013 at 21:10, José Ghislain Quenum wrote:
>>>>>> 
>>>>>>> thanks again for the update. the wtf8.node you point at is not there 
>>>>>>> (no Release folder). I pointed to the Debug one and it is fine. Maybe 
>>>>>>> you wanna fix it
>>>>>>> José
>>>>>>> On May 3, 2013, at 5:55 PM, Mathias Meyer  wrote:
>>>>>>> 
>>>>>>>> Heya,
>>>>>>>> 
>>>>>>>> Just shipped riak-js 0.10.0, with support for Protocol Buffers: 
>>>>>>>> https://npmjs.org/package/riak-js
>>>>>>>> 
>>>>>>>> To use protobufs, specify a different API option when creating a 
>>>>>>>> client:
>>>>>>>> 
>>>>>>>> var riak = require('riak-js').getClient({api: 'protobuf'})
>>>>>>>> 
>>>>>>>> I'd love to have some feedback on how the protobuffs support works 
>>>>>>>> with real workloads, if anyone feels like trying it out. Please report 
>>>>>>>> any issues you're seeing: 
>>>>>>>> https://github.com/mostlyserious/riak-js/issues
>>>>>>>> 
>>>>>>>> Currently it's still using a single connection, but I'll work on 
>>>>>>>> adding connection pooling next. Already merged Andrew J. Stone's 
>>>>>>>> support for pooled HTTP connection into the current master, will work 
>>>>>>>> off that for protobuffs as well.
>>>>>>>> 
>>>>>>>> Thanks to Nathan LaFreniere for his awesome riakpbc and protobuf.js 
>>>>>>>> libraries, which helped me a lot!
>>>>>>>> 
>>>>>>>> Cheers, Mathias
>>>>>>>> 
>>>>>>>> 
>>>>>>>> 
>>>>>>>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>>>>>>>> riak-users mailing list
>>>>>>>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>>>>>>>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>>>>> 
>>>>> 
>>>> 
>>> 
>> 
> 

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

