---
title: "Re: anti_entropy and solr taking up suspiciously large amounts of	space"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2017-04-03T13:21:21-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg18119"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg18096"
author_name: "Matthew Von-Maszewski"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2017-04-03T13:21:21-07:00
---


Rohit,

My apologies for the delayed reply. Too many conflicting demands on my time 
the past two weeks.

I reviewed the riak-debug package you shared. I also discussed its contents 
with other Riak developers.

There does not appear to be anything unexpected. The anti\_entropy bloat is due 
to the bitcask backend not actively communicating TTL expirations to AAE. This 
is a known issue. Similarly, bitcask is not communicating TTL expirations to 
solr. (The leveldb backend recently added expiry / TTL. And it fails the same 
way in this scenario as bitcask.)

We have engineering designs in the works that will eventually correct this 
situation. But the designs do not translate to code that you can use today. 
My apologies.

--> The 100% accurate approach today is to disable bitcask's TTL and create 
external jobs that prune your data via Delete operations. Yes, this is going 
to create a bunch of extra disk operations. But I am being honest.

--> You could reduce only the anti\_entropy disk usage by changing the 
"anti\_entropy" setting in riak.conf from "active" to "passive". But this does 
nothing for solr.

Matthew

> On Mar 22, 2017, at 10:56 AM, Matthew Von-Maszewski  
> wrote:
> 
> Rohit,
> 
> Would you please run “riak-debug” on one server from the command line and 
> send the tar.gz file it creates directly to me. Do not copy the email list.
> 
> Notes on its usage are here: 
> http://docs.basho.com/riak/kv/2.2.1/using/cluster-operations/inspecting-node/#riak-debug
> 
> 
> 
> The resulting debug package will give me and others at Basho a better picture 
> of the problem. The alternative is a about twenty rounds of “what about 
> this, oh, then what about that”.
> 
> Thanks,
> Matthew
> 
> 
> 
>> On Mar 21, 2017, at 9:53 PM, Rohit Sanbhadti > > wrote:
>> 
>> Matthew,
>> 
>> To clarify, this happens on all nodes in our cluster (10+ nodes) although 
>> the exact size varies by 10s of GB. I’ve rolling restarted the cluster the 
>> last time this happened (last week) with no significant change in size, 
>> although the output from riak-admin aae-status and riak-admin search 
>> aae-status shows empty after the restart. 
>> 
>> -- 
>> Rohit S.
>> 
>> On 3/21/17, 5:25 PM, "Matthew Von-Maszewski" > > wrote:
>> 
>> Rohit,
>> 
>> If you restart the node does the elevated anti\_entropy size decline after 
>> the restart?
>> 
>> Matthew
>> 
>> 
>>> On Mar 21, 2017, at 8:00 PM, Rohit Sanbhadti >> > wrote:
>>> 
>>> Running Riak 2.2.0 on Ubuntu 16.04.1, we’ve noticed that anti\_entropy is 
>>> taking up way too much space on all of our nodes. We use multi\_backend with 
>>> mostly bitcask backends (relevant part of config pasted below). Has anyone 
>>> seen this before, or does anyone have an idea what might be causing this? 
>>> 
>>> storage\_backend = multi
>>> multi\_backend.bitcask\_1day.storage\_backend = bitcask
>>> multi\_backend.bitcask\_1day.bitcask.data\_root = /var/lib/riak/bitcask\_1day
>>> multi\_backend.bitcask\_1day.bitcask.expiry = 1d
>>> multi\_backend.bitcask\_1day.bitcask.expiry.grace\_time = 1h
>>> multi\_backend.bitcask\_2day.storage\_backend = bitcask
>>> multi\_backend.bitcask\_2day.bitcask.data\_root = /var/lib/riak/bitcask\_2day
>>> multi\_backend.bitcask\_2day.bitcask.expiry = 2d
>>> multi\_backend.bitcask\_2day.bitcask.expiry.grace\_time = 1h
>>> multi\_backend.bitcask\_4day.storage\_backend = bitcask
>>> multi\_backend.bitcask\_4day.bitcask.data\_root = /var/lib/riak/bitcask\_4day
>>> multi\_backend.bitcask\_4day.bitcask.expiry = 4d
>>> multi\_backend.bitcask\_4day.bitcask.expiry.grace\_time = 1h
>>> multi\_backend.bitcask\_8day.storage\_backend = bitcask
>>> multi\_backend.bitcask\_8day.bitcask.data\_root = /var/lib/riak/bitcask\_8day
>>> multi\_backend.bitcask\_8day.bitcask.expiry = 8d
>>> multi\_backend.bitcask\_8day.bitcask.expiry.grace\_time = 1h
>>> multi\_backend.leveldb\_mult.storage\_backend = leveldb
>>> multi\_backend.leveldb\_mult.leveldb.maximum\_memory.percent = 30
>>> multi\_backend.leveldb\_mult.leveldb.data\_root = /var/lib/riak/leveldb\_mult
>>> multi\_backend.bitcask\_mult.storage\_backend = bitcask
>>> multi\_backend.bitcask\_mult.bitcask.data\_root = /var/lib/riak/bitcask\_mult
>>> multi\_backend.default = leveldb\_mult
>>> 
>>> $ du –h –d 1 /var/lib/riak
>>> 
>>> 4.0K /var/lib/riak/riak\_kv\_exchange\_fsm
>>> 52K /var/lib/riak/generated.configs
>>> 224K /var/lib/riak/cluster\_meta
>>> 424K /var/lib/riak/ring
>>> 1.1M /var/lib/riak/kv\_vnode
>>> 2.1M /var/lib/riak/bitcask\_1day
>>> 3.6M /var/lib/riak/bitcask\_4day
>>> 33M /var/lib/riak/yz\_temp
>>> 1.1G /var/lib/riak/bitcask\_2day
>>> 5.9G /var/lib/riak/yz\_anti\_entropy
>>> 20G /var/lib/riak/yz
>>> 24G /var/lib/riak/leveldb\_mult
>>> 25G /var/lib/riak/bitcask\_mult
>>> 27G /var/lib/riak/bitcask\_8day
>>> 139G /var/lib/riak/anti\_entropy
>>> 240G /var/lib/riak
>>> 
>>> 
>>> -- 
>>> Rohit S.
>>> 
>>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>>> riak-users mailing list
>>> riak-users@lists.basho.com 
>>> https://urldefense.proofpoint.com/v2/url?u=http-3A\_\_lists.basho.com\_mailman\_listinfo\_riak-2Dusers-5Flists.basho.com&d=DwIFaQ&c=uilaK90D4TOVoH58JNXRgQ&r=qO7g3ZLnCDJ2Kp8qz13HpzC2NAX5qNCtEhoWeGshuEI&m=zcfqvyFJVK17vAft30Cv9abkK5P\_f2JtRonrl0CRYnM&s=wSNoX28DcQ-CCfWp9vRUA-70z3LeWFNGHG3-LPKzAtQ&e=
>>> 
>> 
>> 
>> 
> 

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

