---
title: "Re: Missing keys in bucket?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-09-03T09:05:00-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12188"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12189"
author_name: "Anders Hedström"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-09-03T09:05:00-07:00
---


The funny thing is that there's no delete's issued... Can I still get
Tombstone objects?


On Tue, Sep 3, 2013 at 4:30 PM, Jeremiah Peschka  wrote:

> TL;DR: Distributed databases are spooky, your app must account for
> entertaining side effects like you described.
>
> Long form:
>
> There is some window of time between issuing a delete, Riak writing the
> initial tombstone, and then Riak deleting the underlying data from disk [1].
>
> In any situation where you're querying for data and there's a chance it
> could go away, you need to make sure that you're double checking that the
> data is present and that you're accounting for failures.
>
> Secondary indexes ($bucket included) perform a coverage query. That is -
> when you query an index, Riak will not read from R partitions (notice that
> you can't set an R-value for index reads?), instead it reads from enough
> partitions to get 1 copy of the data. See [2] for more details on coverage
> queries.
>
> In theory, you could be reading rows from a node before the delete has
> been replicated or between the tombstoning and reclamation of the object.
>
> [1]:
> http://lists.basho.com/pipermail/riak-users\_lists.basho.com/2011-October/006048.html
> [2]:
> http://lists.basho.com/pipermail/riak-users\_lists.basho.com/2011-October/006237.html
>
>
>
> ---
> Jeremiah Peschka - Founder, Brent Ozar Unlimited
> MCITP: SQL Server 2008, MVP
> Cloudera Certified Developer for Apache Hadoop
>
>
> On Fri, Aug 30, 2013 at 5:54 AM, Anders Hedström <
> anders.hedstr...@gmail.com> wrote:
>
>> Hello,
>>
>> I've got a riak cluster with 3 nodes.
>>
>> I use the $bucket index to get all keys for a bucket. Then I loop thru
>> the returned list and try to fetch each object for each key. For some keys
>> that was returned I get a 404 back when trying to fetch the object... How
>> is this possible? What can have gone wrong? I've got no clue... When the
>> $bucket index returns a key I expect it to exist.
>>
>> I appreciate any response...
>>
>> Cheers
>> //Anders
>>
>>
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>
>>
>


-- 
-------------------------------------------------
LinkedIn: http://www.linkedin.com/in/andershedstrom
GTalk: anders.hedstr...@gmail.com
Skype: anders.hedstrom
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

