---
title: "Re: Exploring Riak, need to confirm throughput"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-04-04T14:47:08-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10701"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg10697"
author_name: "Reid Draper"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-04-04T14:47:08-07:00
---



On Apr 4, 2013, at 4:14 PM, Matthew MacClary 
 wrote:

> Thanks for the feedback. I made two changes to my test setup and saw better 
> throughput:
> 
> 1) Don't write to the same key over and over. Updating a key appears to be a 
> lot slower than creating a new key
> 
> 2) I used parallel PUTs
> 
> The throughput I was measuring before was about 26MB/s on localhost. With 
> these changes it went to around 200MB/s on a disk that can write at about 
> 480MB/s. That is more the type of performance I need for the data store we 
> have in mind. I am going to proceed with testing on 8 nodes with RAID0 drives.

How are you measuring throughput? HTTP throughput, or disk throughput with 
something like iostat?

> 
> Here are some details of the testing I did if it will help others. I tried 
> the test with 1MB, 10MB, and 20MB binary data. I didn't notice a big signal 
> with regard to larger objects slowing things down.

The issues with larger objects will likely only present themselves when you 
have more than one node.

> 
> wget 
> http://downloads.basho.com.s3-website-us-east-1.amazonaws.com/riak/1.2/1.2.1/rhel/5/riak-1.2.1-1.el5.x86\_64.rpm
> 
> sudo rpm -Uvh riak-1.2.1-1.el5.x86\_64.rpm
> /usr/sbin/riak start
> mkdir data-dir && cd data-dir
> seq -w 0 100 | parallel dd if=/dev/zero of={}.10meg bs=8k count=1280
> http\_proxy= # don’t contact proxy
> time find . -name \\*.10meg | parallel -j8 -n1 wget --post-file {} 
> http://127.0.0.1:8098/riak/test1/{}
> 
> During these tests I saw beam.smp jumping to 350-550 while watching %CPU 
> under top. When I was seeing slower thoughput beam.smp was using much less 
> CPU.
> 
> Kind regards,
> 
> -Matt
> 
> On Wed, Apr 3, 2013 at 7:20 AM, Reid Draper  wrote:
> inline:
> 
> 
> On Apr 2, 2013, at 6:48 PM, Matthew MacClary 
>  wrote:
> 
>> Hi all, I am new to this list. Thanks for taking the time to read my 
>> questions! I just want to know if the data throughput I am seeing is 
>> expected for the bitcask backend or if it is too low.
>> 
>> I am doing the preliminary feasibility study to decide if we should 
>> implement a Riak data store. Our application involves rendering chunks of 
>> data that range in size from about 1MB-9MB or so. This rendering work is CPU 
>> intensive so it is spread over a bunch of compute nodes which write the 
>> output into a data store.
> 
> Riak is not intended to store objects of this size, not at the moment anyway. 
> Riak CS [1], on the other hand, can store files up to several TB. That being 
> said, Riak CS may or may not have other qualities you desire. It's a known 
> issue [2] that the Riak object size limitations should be better documented.
> 
>> 
>> After rendering, a second process consumes that data chunks from the data 
>> store at a rate of about 480MB/s in a streaming configuration so there is > 
>> 480MB/s of new data coming in at the same time the data is being read.
> 
> Is this a single-socket, or is there some concurrency here?
> 
>> 
>> My testing so far involves a one node cluster on a dev box. What I wanted to 
>> show is that Riak writes were limited by the hard disk throughput. So far I 
>> haven't seen writes to localhost come anywhere close to the hard disk 
>> throughput:
>> 
>> $ MYFILE=/tmp/output.png
>> $ dd if=/dev/zero of=$MYFILE bs=8k count=256k
>> 262144+0 records in
>> 262144+0 records out
>> 2147483648 bytes (2.1 GB) copied, 4.48906 seconds, 478 MB/s
>> $ rm $MYFILE
>> 
>> So the hard disk throughput is around 478MB/s for this simple write test.
>> 
>> The next test I did was to load a 39MB binary file into my one node cluster. 
>> I used a script to do 12 POSTs with curl and 12 POSTSs with wget. 
>> 
>> curl --tcp-nodelay -XPOST http://${IP}:${PORT}/riak/test/file3 \
>> -H "Content-Type:application/octet-stream" \
>> --data-binary @${UPLOAD\_FILE} \
>> --write-out "%{speed\_upload}\n"
>> 
>> wget --post-file ${UPLOAD\_FILE} http://127.0.0.1:8098/riak/test/file1
>> 
>> What I found was that I could get only about 26MB/s with this command line 
>> testing. Does this seam about right? Should I see an 18x slow down over the 
>> write speed of the disk drive?
> 
> Was this running the 24 (12 \* 2) uploads in serial or parallel? With a 
> single-threaded workload, you're unlikely to get Riak to be able to saturate 
> a disk. Furthermore, there are design decisions in Riak at the moment that 
> make it less than optimal for single objects of 39MB. Single-object high 
> throughput (measured in MB) is more in the wheelhouse of Riak CS than Riak on 
> it's own, which is primarily designed for low-latency and high-throughput 
> (measured in ops/sec). One of the ways that Riak CS achieves this on top of 
> Riak is by introducing concurrency between the end-user and Riak.
> 
>> 
>> Thanks for your comments on my application and test approach!
> 
> Hope this helps,
> Reid
> 
> [1] http://docs.basho.com/riakcs/latest/
> [2] https://github.com/basho/basho\_docs/issues/256
> 
> 
>> 
>> -Matt
>> 
>> -----------------------------------------------
>> Dev Environment Details:
>> dev box running RHEL6.2, 12 cores, 48GB, 6Gb/s SAS 15k HD
>> Riak 1.2.1 from 
>> http://downloads.basho.com.s3-website-us-east-1.amazonaws.com/riak/1.2/1.2.1/rhel/5/riak-1.2.1-1.el5.x86\_64.rpm
>> n\_val=1
>> r=1
>> w=1
>> backend=bitcask
>> 
>> Deploy Environment Details:
>> Node to node bandwidth > 40Gb/s
>> similar config for node servers
>> n\_val=3
>> r=1
>> w=1
>> backend=?
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> 
> 
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

