---
title: "Re: Trouble with Riak Search JSON Extractor"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-03-23T09:16:12-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15915"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15914"
author_name: "Zeeshan Lakhani"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-03-23T09:16:12-07:00
---


Hey Matt, 

Remember, with the reload, it’s only new objects in \*new\* fields that will take 
the updates. Depending on how big your dataset is, the quick fix may be to 
upload the \*updated\* schema under a new name and tie the index to that. The K/V 
pairs should then work correctly when PUT.

Zeeshan Lakhani
programmer | 
software engineer at @basho | 
org. member/founder of @papers\_we\_love | paperswelove.org
twitter => @zeeshanlakhani

> On Mar 23, 2015, at 12:07 PM, Matt Brooks  wrote:
> 
> Zeeshan, 
> 
> Is there a way to reload the index manually? I tried running 
> "rp(yz\_index:reload(<<"index\_name">>))." on each node as suggested on a 
> GitHub issue, and though I got an "ok" response back listing each nodes in 
> the cluster, I still could not query using the updated schema. I even deleted 
> all of my K/V pairs and re-added them with changed keys. 
> 
> Thank you, 
> Matt.
> 
> On Sun, Mar 22, 2015 at 10:21 PM Matt Brooks  > wrote:
> I see. I'll be looking forward to the future release! Thank you, Zeeshan.
> 
> Matt.
> 
> On Sun, Mar 22, 2015 at 9:57 PM Zeeshan Lakhani  > wrote:
> Hey Matt,
> 
> Thanks for clarifying the situation. Yes, I’m working on auto-reloading and 
> re-syncing data along with changes to schemas; it’ll be in a future release. 
> Currently, you can add fields to the schema, for example, for new sets of 
> data, and reload the index if you `riak attach` into one of the running nodes 
> and reload the index across the cluster (based on 
> https://github.com/basho/yokozuna/pull/260 
> ), e.g. 
> https://github.com/basho/yokozuna/issues/130#issuecomment-43802826 
> .
> 
> Zeeshan Lakhani
> programmer | 
> software engineer at @basho | 
> org. member/founder of @papers\_we\_love | paperswelove.org 
> 
> twitter => @zeeshanlakhani
> 
>> On Mar 22, 2015, at 9:37 PM, Matt Brooks > > wrote:
>> 
>> Just discovered this on GitHub https://github.com/basho/yokozuna/issues/130 
>> . Looks like auto-reloading is 
>> a work in progress.
>> 
>> On Sun, Mar 22, 2015 at 9:24 PM Matt Brooks > > wrote:
>> Not getting any errors... but I did notice something interesting after 
>> deleting the nodes on my system and then reconfiguring them. 
>> 
>> If the first time I set up a schema I add the multivalued field in question, 
>> everything works. If I then change the schema and then update it over HTTP, 
>> the changes do not take affect. 
>> 
>> For example, when I reconfigured the nodes on my system I added kept the 
>> multivalued "groups" field I mentioned above. I then added some users and 
>> was able to successfully retrieve them using q=groups:\* or something more 
>> specific. I then changed the schema from "groups" to "groups.id 
>> " and PUT it on the server successfully (a subsequent GET 
>> returned the new schema). I also updated the users so that the "groups" 
>> array was changed to an array of JSON objects, each with an "id" field that 
>> would match the "groups.id " field in the schema. I then 
>> tried to query the users using q=groups.id:\*. This failed. 
>> 
>> Do changed to the schema not cause the solr indexes to update? 
>> 
>> PS: I dug around in $RIAK/data/yz/user/conf and noticed a user.xml file. The 
>> file held the ORIGINAL schema, not the updated one.
>> 
>> 
>> On Sun, Mar 22, 2015 at 6:45 PM Zeeshan Lakhani > > wrote:
>> Hello Matt,
>> 
>> Are you receiving any indexing errors in your logs (check the Solr logs as 
>> well)? To be sure, I just wrote a test (using our erlang pb api, 
>> https://github.com/basho/yokozuna/pull/474/files#diff-5d0015658ff90b94cb1a00329ffafe00R251
>> 
>> )
>> using a custom schema, and I didn’t run into any troubles; I also checked 
>> via the http api. If you have the required \_yz\* fields, you should get those 
>> back with the document. If you want the groups items themselves, you’d have 
>> to make `stored` true.
>> 
>> Zeeshan Lakhani
>> programmer | 
>> software engineer at @basho | 
>> org. member/founder of @papers\_we\_love | paperswelove.org 
>> 
>> twitter => @zeeshanlakhani
>> 
>> 
>>> On Mar 22, 2015, at 4:13 PM, Matt Brooks >> > wrote:
>>> 
>> 
>>> Hello,
>>> 
>>> I have a quick question about a search schema that would index an array of 
>>> strings in a JSON object. I am storing user data in JSON that looks 
>>> something like this:
>>> 
>>> {
>>> "name" : "John Smith",
>>> "email" : "jsm...@gmail.com ",
>>> "groups" : [
>>> "3304cf79",
>>> "abe155cf"
>>> ]
>>> }
>>> The custom schema I use for users includes this field entry: 
>>> 
>>> >> multiValued="true"/>
>>> I also have the following field type entry: 
>>> 
>>> 
>>> I assumed that these entries would allow me to search for users using a 
>>> query like: 
>>> 
>>> curl $RIAK/search/query/user?wt=json&q=groups:3304cf79
>>> But no docs are returned. I'm almost certain I have an issue with my 
>>> schema. How can I query users by string entries in the "groups" array?
>>> 
>>> Thank you, 
>>> Matt.
>>> 
>> 
>>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>>> riak-users mailing list
>>> riak-users@lists.basho.com 
>>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com 
>>> 
>> 
> 

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

