---
title: "Re: Late to the party but still wish to compile a working Riak"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2017-07-17T10:52:36-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg18384"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg18383"
author_name: "David Bloom"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2017-07-17T10:52:36-07:00
---


Thank you Mark. I look forward to absorbing as much material as I can.
Your articles on Udon look like a great starting point after completing
LYSE book. Would you recommend completing erlang in anger book as well
before diving into code or LYSE and just dive into it straight away?

David


On Jul 17, 2017 1:40 PM, "Mark Allen"  wrote:

OK, I see that the project doesn't seem to support OTP 18, 19 or 20. I'll
see if I can bump the deps and get it working using Heinz's fork tonight US
time.
On Monday, July 17, 2017, 12:38:07 PM CDT, Mark Allen 
wrote:


You might want to consider starting with udon, my "learn riak core"
application I wrote a couple years ago:

http://basho.com/posts/technical/understanding-riak\_core-building-handoff/

https://speakerdeck.com/mrallen1/building-distributed-applic
ations-with-riak-core

https://github.com/mrallen1/udon

Happy to answer questions here, via twitter @bytemeorg, or github issues,
or in irc on #riak (might be slow - I don't look at riak-user constantly.)

Mark


On Monday, July 17, 2017, 11:16:01 AM CDT, David Bloom 
wrote:


Hello Riak list! After watching many videos about Erlang and LFE in
particular I think I get it and now understand the many benefits of the
BEAM and thought that Riak would make an excellent tool to build
applications with.

While getting excited I learned of Basho's current limbo status but still
interested in learning Riak as it has already been adopted enough that it
seems that Riak (or it's future open-source name whatever) is here to stay.

How can I compile a working Riak? Is it daft of me to learn Erlang/LFE to
get future work supporting existing Riak installations? Though very new to
the Erlang ecosystem, I've managed to use Kerl to install different
versions of R16 and R17, even used it to install Basho's patched R16 but
nothing works.

Would it be better to try using the existing Riak containers on Docker
Hub? Any thoughts or tips for a Lisper looking to work with and learn more
Erlang? My resume available upon request. Thanks in advance for your help.

-David Bloom
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

