---
title: "Re: Max/Min Integer CRDTs?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-02-09T02:35:11-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13632"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13629"
author_name: "Carlos Baquero"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-02-09T02:35:11-08:00
---



Hi,

Thats a really nice problem.

Max and Min are trivial. But the reset is probably not and can lead to some 
design decisions. 

When a replica does a reset it might be reasonable to restrict the reset to the 
values it has seen and not to other concurrent values it had not yet seen. A 
simpler LWW reset solution can probably be ok for some cases but a reset that 
makes sense causally is more demanding.

Carlos

-----
Carlos Baquero
HASLab / INESC TEC &
Universidade do Minho,
Portugal

c...@di.uminho.pt
http://gsd.di.uminho.pt/cbm





On 08/02/2014, at 23:27, Elias Levy wrote:

> No, not a counter. An integer register that keeps either the minimum or the 
> maximum value ever assigned to it (there be two variants, one for minimum and 
> one for maximum).
> 
> In our particularly use case we'd like to keep the earliest and latest 
> observed time of certain events, and it would be useful to be able to set 
> these values in a Riak map data type without first having to fetch the map, 
> compare the values in a register, and then write the map back. And doing 
> this is not equivalent, since the current register implementation is LWW, so 
> you are not guaranteed to actually end up with the minimum or maximum.
> 
> 
> 
> On Sat, Feb 8, 2014 at 3:00 PM, Jason Campbell  wrote:
> My understanding of what Elias wanted was a counter that simply stored the 
> minimum and maximum values it has ever reached, an optional reset would 
> probably be nice as well. It would be quite helpful when dealing with 
> statistics counters that can decrement.
> 
> Then again, I could be wrong.
> 
> ----- Original Message -----
> From: "Russell Brown" 
> To: "Elias Levy" 
> Cc: "riak-users" 
> Sent: Sunday, 9 February, 2014 9:53:42 AM
> Subject: Re: Max/Min Integer CRDTs?
> 
> Hi Elias,
> 
> This is a great time for you to ask, if you’re asking what I think you’re 
> asking.
> 
> On 8 Feb 2014, at 22:35, Elias Levy  wrote:
> 
> > Does Basho have any plans for implementing a CRDT that maintains the 
> > minimum or maximum value for an integer? It would come in handy in our 
> > application and it would be very simple to implement.
> 
> Do you mean some kind of bounded counter that cannot be incremented beyond 
> (say 1000), or decremented below a certain bound (i.e. non-negative counter?) 
> If so, then the plan is yes, but I’m not sure it is simple. If you have a 
> design for such a thing please share it. We’re working with a team from 
> Universidade Nova de Lisboa as part of the SyncFree project on this, but I’d 
> love to hear your ideas for an implementation. If you want to keep it private 
> feel free to email me off list.
> 
> Cheers
> 
> Russell
> 
> >
> > Elias Levy
> > \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> > riak-users mailing list
> > riak-users@lists.basho.com
> > http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> 
> 
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> 
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

