---
title: "Re: Unit testing persistence"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-08-02T10:01:43-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11869"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg11845"
author_name: "Jeremiah Peschka"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-08-02T10:01:43-07:00
---


Responses inline.

---
Jeremiah Peschka - Founder, Brent Ozar Unlimited
MCITP: SQL Server 2008, MVP
Cloudera Certified Developer for Apache Hadoop


On Wed, Jul 31, 2013 at 9:41 PM, Wagner Camarao wrote:

> Hi all ~
>
> Great meetup today - looking forward to upgrading to 1.4
>
> I had a question Mark suggested posting here, then we discussed with a few
> other folks too: How do we unit / integration test persistence with riak?
>

Carefully and in isolation. ;)


>
> Given a basic dev environment, e.g. running only one riak physical node
> locally with all configs default, how do we surely read the data we just
> wrote?
>

This will depend, in part, on what you're trying to test and how you want
the application to behave. I test everything with 5 Riak processes running
on one machine, so it's very doable, you just have to recognize that
performance will be Not Good™.

If you're doing a put immediately followed by a get in the same process,
I'd consider using return\_body instead of issuing a separate get.

Otherwise, a general best practice is to make sure R + W > N


>
> I have tried setting DW=all (Durable Write - as recommended for best
> consistency in the financial example from the little riak book - section
> for developers, more than N/R/W) and tried also using {delete\_mode, keep}
> in riak\_kv app.config (since I truncate the buckets after each test suite),
> but still, I get intermittent test failures as eventually the data isn't
> available for reading right after writing.
>

Developing the .NET client, our integration tests create bucket names using
GUIDs so we can avoid any kind of spookiness around deletes. I just want to
test how the client will behave in a known situation. Truncating buckets
definitely falls into the category of weird behavior that you probably
won't observe in production.


>
> Please note I'm trying to avoid mocking / stubbing as well as hacks like
> "keep trying to read" until a certain timeout.
>
> I'm looking ideally for a simple configuration or any known best practices.
>
> Thanks
> ~W
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

