---
title: "Re: are Siblings ordered?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-10-07T12:18:32-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12533"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12531"
author_name: "Jeremiah Peschka"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-10-07T12:18:32-07:00
---


I was about to add something similar :)

There is CRDT support present in the develop branch of CorrugatedIron, that
operates at a relatively low level - you're left to construct the
operations yourself. The current API works great for things like friends
lists but it's rough for something like modifying the properties in an
existing object.

Expect more developments as time allows.

---
Jeremiah Peschka - Founder, Brent Ozar Unlimited
MCITP: SQL Server 2008, MVP
Cloudera Certified Developer for Apache Hadoop


On Mon, Oct 7, 2013 at 12:04 PM, Sam Elliott  wrote:

> Each sibling has it's own last-modified date, which you should be able to
> use to sort them when you get them back.
>
> However, I'd suggest the following: if they're siblings, they were created
> from concurrent edits. Thus, create a merge function that is entirely
> deterministic without using the timestamp. This should save you from any
> clock skew issues, and also from the fact that an edit may not have been
> performed with the most up-to-date information.
>
> I guess people can't wait for our CRDTs to launch.
>
> Sam
>
> --
> Sam Elliott
> Engineer
> sam.elli...@basho.com
> --
>
>
> On Monday, 7 October 2013 at 2:47PM, Alex Rice wrote:
>
> > Yes, exactly that's what I'm working on. By knowing which sibling is
> > the oldest and which is the newest it seems like I can usually figure
> > out how to marge/apply the modifications. Things like Player profiles,
> > friends lists, etc.
> >
> > On Mon, Oct 7, 2013 at 12:43 PM, Jeremiah Peschka
> >  wrote:
> > > There's no guarantee of return order as far as I know. Since you can't
> count
> > > on clocks anyway...
> > >
> > > Are you trying to determine which data modifications to apply from
> multiple
> > > siblings?
> > >
> > > ---
> > > sent from a tiny portion of the hive mind...
> > > in this case, a phone
> > >
> > > On Oct 7, 2013 11:40 AM, "Alex Rice"  a...@mindlube.com)> wrote:
> > > >
> > > > Are they ordered by timestamp, and is the ordering guaranteed?
> (within
> > > > the clock accuracy of course). Using the C# client Thanks,
> > > > Alex
> > > >
> > > > \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> > > > riak-users mailing list
> > > > riak-users@lists.basho.com (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
> > > > http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> > >
> >
> >
> >
> > \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> > riak-users mailing list
> > riak-users@lists.basho.com (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
> > http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

