---
title: "Re: Practical Riak cluster choices in AWS (number of nodes? AZ's?)"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-08-12T19:02:39-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11984"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg11969"
author_name: "Brady Wetherington"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-08-12T19:02:39-07:00
---


I will probably stick with EBS-store for now. I don't know how comfortable
I can get with a replica that could disappear with simply an unintended
reboot (one of my nodes just did that randomly today, for example). Sure, I
would immediately start rebuilding it as soon as that were to happen, but
we could be talking a pretty huge chunk of data that would have to get
rebuilt out of the cluster. And that sounds scary. Even though, logically,
I understand that it should not be.

I will get there; I'm just a little cautious. As I learn Riak better and
get more comfortable with it, maybe I would be able to start to move in a
direction like that. And certainly as the performance characteristics of
EBS-volumes start to bite me in the butt; that might force me to get
comfortable with instance-store real quick. I would at least hope to be
serving a decent-sized chunk of my data from memory, however.

As for throwing my instances in one AZ - I don't feel comfortable with that
either. I'll try out the way I'm saying and will report back - do I end up
with crazy latencies all over the map, or does it seem to "just work?"
We'll see.

In the meantime, I still feel funny about "breaking the rules" on the
5-node cluster policy. Given my other choices as having been kinda
nailed-down for now, what do you guys think of that?

E.g. - should I take the risk of putting a 5th instance up in the same AZ
as one of the others, or should I just "be ok" with having 4? Or should I
do something weird like changing my 'n' value to be one fewer or something
like that? (I think, as I understand it so far, I'm really liking "n=3,
w=2, r=2" - but I could change it if it made more sense with the topology
I've selected.)

-B.


Date: Sun, 11 Aug 2013 18:57:11 -0600
> From: Jared Morrow 
> To: Jeremiah Peschka 
> Cc: riak-users 
> Subject: Re: Practical Riak cluster choices in AWS (number of nodes?
> AZ's?)
> Message-ID:
> <
> cacusovelpu8yfcivykexm9ztkhq-kdnowk1afvpflcsip2h...@mail.gmail.com>
> Content-Type: text/plain; charset="iso-8859-1"
>
> +1 to what Jeremiah said, putting a 4 or 5 node cluster in each US West and
> US East using MDC between them would be the optimum solution. I'm also not
> buying consistent latencies between AZ's, but I've also not tested it
> personally in a production environment. We have many riak-users members on
> AWS, so hopefully more experienced people will chime in.
>
> If you haven't seen them already, here's what I have in my "Riak on AWS"
> bookmark folder:
>
> http://media.amazonwebservices.com/AWS\_NoSQL\_Riak.pdf
> http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/ops/tuning/aws/
> http://basho.com/riak-on-aws-deployment-options/
>
> -Jared
>
>
>
>
> On Sun, Aug 11, 2013 at 6:11 PM, Jeremiah Peschka <
> jeremiah.pesc...@gmail.com> wrote:
>
> > I'd be wary of using EBS backed nodes for Riak - with only a single
> > ethernet connection, it wil be very easy to saturate the max of 1000mbps
> > available in a single AWS NIC (unless you're using cluster compute
> > instances). I'd be more worried about temporarily losing contact with a
> > node through network saturation than through AZ failure, truthfully.
> >
> > The beauty of Riak is that a node can drop and you can replace it with
> > minimal fuss. Use that to your advantage and make every node in the
> cluster
> > disposable.
> >
> > As far as doubling up in one AZ goes - if you're worried about AZ
> failure,
> > you should treat each AZ as a separate data center and design your
> failure
> > scenarios accordingly. Yes, Amazon say you should put one Riak node in
> each
> > AZ; I'm not buying that. With no guarantee around latency, and no control
> > around between DCs, you need to be very careful how much of that latency
> > you're willing to introduce into your application.
> >
> > Were I in your position, I'd stand up a 5 node cluster in US-WEST-2 and
> be
> > done with it. I'd consider Riak EE for my HA/DR solution once the
> business
> > decides that off-site HA/DR is something it wants/needs.
> >
> >
> > ---
> > Jeremiah Peschka - Founder, Brent Ozar Unlimited
> > MCITP: SQL Server 2008, MVP
> > Cloudera Certified Developer for Apache Hadoop
> >
> >
> > On Sun, Aug 11, 2013 at 1:52 PM, Brady Wetherington <
> br...@bespincorp.com>wrote:
> >
> >> Hi all -
> >>
> >> I have some questions about how I want my Riak stuff to work - I've
> >> already asked these questions of some Basho people and gotten some
> answers,
> >> but thought I would toss it out into the wider world to see what you all
> >> have to say, too:
> >>
> >> First off - I know 5 instances is the "magic number" of instances to
> >> have. If I understand the thinking here, it's that at the default
> >> redundancy level ('n'?) of 3, it is most likely to start getting me some
> >> scaling (e.g., performance > just that of a single node), and yet also
> have
> >> redundancy; whereby I can lose one box and not start to take a
> performance
> >> hit.
> >>
> >> My question is - I think I can only do 4 in a way that makes sense. I
> >> only have 4 AZ's that I can use right now; AWS won't let me boot
> instances
> >> in 1a. My concern is if I try to do 5, I will be "doubling up" in one
> AZ -
> >> and in AWS you're almost as likely to lose an entire AZ as you are a
> single
> >> instance. And so, if I have instances doubled-up in one AZ (let's say
> >> us-east-1e), and then I lose 1e, I've now lost two instances. What are
> the
> >> chances that all three of my replicas of some chunk of my data are on
> those
> >> two instances? I know that it's not guaranteed that all replicas are on
> >> separate nodes.
> >>
> >> So is it better for me to ignore the recommendation of 5 nodes, and just
> >> do 4? Or to ignore the fact that I might be doubling-up in one AZ? Also,
> >> another note. These are designed to be 'durable' nodes, so if one
> should go
> >> down I would expect to bring it back up \*with\* its data - or, if I
> >> couldn't, I would do a force-replace or replace and rebuild it from the
> >> other replicas. I'm definitely not doing instance-store. So I don't
> know if
> >> that mitigates my need for a full 5 nodes. I would also consider losing
> one
> >> node to be "degraded" and would probably seek to fix that problem as
> soon
> >> as possible, so I wouldn't expect to be in that situation for long. I
> would
> >> probably tolerate a drop in performance during that time, too. (Not a
> >> super-severe one, but 20-30 percent? Sure.)
> >>
> >> What do you folks think?
> >>
> >> -B.
> >>
> >>
> >> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> >> riak-users mailing list
> >> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> >> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> >>
> >>
> >
> > \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> > riak-users mailing list
> > riak-users@lists.basho.com
> > http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> >
> >
> -------------- next part --------------
> An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
> URL: <
> http://lists.basho.com/pipermail/riak-users\_lists.basho.com/attachments/20130811/d350b1f1/attachment-0001.html
> >
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

