---
title: "Re: Corrugated Iron for Riak- WCF Performance Issue"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-10-09T16:30:41-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12578"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12577"
author_name: "OJ Reeves"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-10-09T16:30:41-07:00
---


oops! hit send too early.

4. What is your Riak cluster setup? (eg. how many nodes, configuration
setteings, etc).


On Thu, Oct 10, 2013 at 9:26 AM, OJ Reeves  wrote:

> Pandiarajan,
>
> Can you please answer some questions for me:
>
> 1. What is your application architecture? Are you consuming CI as a
> transport from WCF or are you calling CI from a RESTful server?
> 2. Prior to adding CI, how were you talking to Riak?
> 3. Have you ran basho\_bench against your application before and after
> implementing CI? Can you please share your results?
>
> Thanks.
> OJ
>
>
>
> On Thu, Oct 10, 2013 at 8:52 AM, Pandiarajan Subramani <
> psubram...@americanlogistics.com> wrote:
>
>> Hi Everyone,\*\*\*\*
>>
>> I am using Corrugated Iron(CI) for Riak in my
>> WCF REST application. After adding CI, the web services started to send
>> response very slow. All immediate consecutive request to the REST end
>> points get queued up and the responses are delayed more. If anyone has
>> implemented CI in the WCF project. Please advise me how to fix this issue.
>> \*\*\*\*
>>
>> \*\* \*\*
>>
>> Thanks and Regards\*\*\*\*
>>
>> \*Pandiarajan Subramani\*\*\*\*\*
>>
>> American Logistics Company (ALC) | Office: 866.999.3371 x132 | Mobile:
>> 575.915.2325 | www.AmericanLogistics.com
>> \*\*\*\*
>>
>> \*Coordinating Passenger Transportation\*\*\*\*\*
>>
>> \*Confidentiality Notice: \*This message is intended only for the use of
>> the individual or entity to whom it is addressed. The message may contain
>> confidential or legally privileged information. If you are not the intended
>> recipient you are hereby notified that any disclosure, copying,
>> distribution of this information is strictly prohibited and may be
>> unlawful. If you have received this communication in error, please notify
>> us immediately by responding to this email and then delete it from your
>> system.\*\*\*\*
>>
>> \*\* \*\*
>>
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>
>>
>
>
> --
>
> OJ Reeves
> +61 431 952 586
> http://buffered.io/
>



-- 

OJ Reeves
+61 431 952 586
http://buffered.io/
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

