---
title: "Basho docs to no longer have 'master' branch."
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-06-22T08:17:48-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16262"
author_name: "Lauren Rother"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-06-22T08:17:48-07:00
---


Hi Community,

If you have or were thinking of contributing to the Basho docs project, a
few things are changing that you should know about!

First and most importantly, in order to make sure we don't lose history,
we're going to version our docs via branches.
What this means for you: We will be removing the master branch as of July
1st, 2015. Use the most current version branch as HEAD (right now, that's
riak/2.1.1), and submit PRs to the version you want to fix/change/add to.
(See instructions below on updating your existing fork.)

Second, we're moving to a point where we vastly prefer that you fork the
basho\_docs repo and submit a PR from there.
What this means for you: See the README.md[1] for instructions on forking.
(We know not everyone can do this, and we are not going to be monsters
about it. It is simply a strong preference.)

Third, we're busy planning changes to the Docs platform. This will likely
mean that more things and workflows are shifting around. Stay tuned for
further announcements!

As always, if you have any questions, concerns, or suggestions, please
reply here or email us at d...@basho.com.

Warmest,
The Basho Docs team


\*Instructions for updating your existing fork\*

If you had forked the basho\_docs repo at some point and would like to
continue contributing, you'll probably want to update your origin/HEAD to
point at the most current version of the docs: riak/2.1.1.This will make
sure you're pulling the most recent version of the doc you're updating. (We
know this is a bit annoying and we are working on changes that will likely
make this obsolete.)

Here's how:
`git remote set-head upstream riak/2.1.1`

\*\*Note, the above command assumes you have forked the repo and set
basho/basho\_docs as your upstream remote.


[1] https://github.com/basho/basho\_docs/blob/master/README.md
[2] https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo/
[3] https://help.github.com/articles/adding-a-remote/
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

