---
title: "Re: RFC: Let's Make Riak-Core Easier to Use"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-11-05T15:04:56-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12861"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12796"
author_name: "Sam Elliott"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-11-05T15:04:56-08:00
---


Riak-Core, Riak-Users,

So far I've had some fantastic feedback! This is what my list of things to work 
on looks like so far:

1. Documentation. Wow, yes, we'll get some ready for you. I'm working out how 
to integrate them with the rest of riak's docs, and once I've done that I'll 
start actually researching and writing.

2. Examples. They go hand in hand with docs. I have a few I want to write, and 
I think Chris has written some before. We also have prior examples that we 
could do with updating.

3. rebar template(s). This hasn't been particularly well maintained, we'll do 
something about that so that people can get going faster.

4. Testing. There are various suggestions, but I think I'll put some effort 
into making riak\_test easier to use with your own app. riak\_test is the system 
we use for testing riak itself, including introducing network partitions and 
doing cluster upgrades. 

5. Maybe after all of that I can look at the internal APIs and make them easier 
to use, and make the demarcation between the features of riak\_core and riak\_kv 
a bit clearer. 

6. ??? Seriously, if you have more suggestions, send them to me. I'm happy for 
people to send me suggestions privately if they don't want some details in the 
public.

I should point out the process won't be immediate. I'm not going to aim to have 
work done by 2.0. Of course I want stuff to be done quickly, but I value 
everything being correct and good quality above that.

Sam

--
Sam Elliott
Engineer
sam.elli...@basho.com
--

On Tue, Oct 29, 2013 at 8:13 PM, Sam Elliott  wrote:
> Hey Riak-Users (and Riak-Core)
> 
> Some time ago, Basho released riak\_core as a framework for building 
> distributed applications [1].
> One of the key pieces of guidance that was given at the time was that you 
> should use the features
> of riak\_kv if your app needed to do any persistence. With the new features 
> we'll be releasing in
> 2.0 [2], we want to make riak\_core the best toolkit for building complex 
> distributed applications
> with both CP and AP semantics.
> 
> As I see it, the main thing that is preventing most people from writing their 
> own riak\_core
> application is that there's not an API that allows people to easily do so. 
> There's a basic internal
> KV client at the moment, but there are some features that it doesn't cover.
> 
> Post-RICON (and almost certainly after the 2.0 release), I'm going to focus 
> on making riak\_core
> applications really easy to make, and riak\_kv easy to use from a riak\_core 
> application.
> 
> I'd love any feedback that you all have. How can we improve the current APIs? 
> How can we make it
> really easy for people to create riak\_core apps? How can we nicely expose the 
> newest features of
> riak\_kv for people to use in their riak\_core applications?
> 
> Bonus points for feedback from anyone who has built and run a riak\_core 
> application in production.
> 
> Sam
> 
> PS: I have some swag to give to anyone who's helpful
> 
> [1]: http://basho.com/where-to-start-with-riak-core/
> [2]: http://basho.com/introducing-riak-2-0/
> 
> 
> 
> --
> Sam Elliott
> Engineer
> sam.elli...@basho.com (mailto:sam.elli...@basho.com)
> --
> 
> 



\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

