---
title: "Re: Riak Search in bucket with write_once = true"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-08-11T01:26:52-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16400"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16399"
author_name: "Marius Cobzarenco"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-08-11T01:26:52-07:00
---


Hey Zeeshan,

Thanks for the clarification. I wasn't sure if it was a bug or intended
behaviour, glad to hear it's the former and that it'll be fixed :-)

best,
Marius
On 11 Aug 2015 3:43 am, "Zeeshan Lakhani"  wrote:

> Hey Marius,
>
> To put it simply, yes, 2.1.1 does not support write\_once with search. Some
> objects will get indexed, but it will take a very long time and there will
> be issues with the cluster, etc…
>
> There should have been a note about this. Our apologies. We have solved
> the issue, and it will be supported in 2.1.2, which is our next release.
> You can read more about it here:
> https://github.com/basho/yokozuna/issues/512.
>
> Thanks.
>
> Zeeshan Lakhani
> programmer |
> software engineer at @basho |
> org. member/founder of @papers\_we\_love | paperswelove.org
> twitter => @zeeshanlakhani
>
> On Aug 10, 2015, at 4:22 PM, Marius Cobzarenco  wrote:
>
> Hi everyone,
>
> Riak Search does not seem to work in a bucket whose bucket type has
> write\_once = true. I could not see this mentioned anywhere in the
> documentation, but I was curious if it is to be expected? It seems like the
> objects never get indexed.
>
> My bucket type is:
>
> riak-admin bucket-type create raw\_tweets \
> '{"props": {"search": true, "search\_index": "index\_raw\_tweets",
> "n\_val": 2, "allow\_mult": false, "write\_once": true}}' && \
> riak-admin bucket-type activate raw\_tweets
>
>
> If I remove "write\_once":true, the objects are indexed.
>
> Many thanks
> Marius
>
>
>
>
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
>

-- 


-- 

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

