---
title: "Re: Basho Bench httpraw shows no data for op"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-03-21T02:38:57-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10529"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg10492"
author_name: "Christian Steinmann"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-03-21T02:38:57-07:00
---


On machine one I got the Error:



02:13:16.583 [info] Application basho\_bench started on node nonode@nohost

02:13:16.591 [debug] Supervisor inet\_gethost\_native\_sup started undefined
at pid <0.94.0>

02:13:16.592 [debug] Supervisor kernel\_safe\_sup started
inet\_gethost\_native:start\_link() at pid <0.93.0>



02:13:26.581 [warning] No data for op: {insert,insert}

02:13:26.582 [info]
Errors:[{{insert,insert},3},{{{insert,insert},{post,timeout}},3}]



And riak-admin status shows:

node\_puts\_total : 8

but on the other machines 0



On machine two, when I start basho bench from their with the same script,
I got this error:



02:16:22.850 [warning] No data for op: {insert,insert}

02:16:22.851 [info]
Errors:[{{insert,insert},94992},{{{insert,insert},{post,{conn\_failed,{error,enetunreach}}}},94992}]



And riak-admin status shows:

node\_puts\_total : 0

for all machines.



I also tried:



curl -v -XPUT http://10.0.10.153:8098/riak/test/doc?returnbody=true -H
"X-Riak-Vclock: a85hYGBgzGDKBVIszMk55zKYEhnzWBlKIniO8mUBAA==" -H
"Content-Type: application/json" -d '{"bar":"baz"}'



on all machines, also with ips from other machines I always got HTTP 200 OK



Any idea whats going wrong?



I will try to use a client API and see if I can make inserts that way. The
problem is, I need the benchmark graphics for my case study.

I will also try to reinstall basho bench perhaps I made some mistakes.


Greetings Christian


2013/3/20 Evan Vigil-McClanahan 

> You could look at the output of `riak-admin status` for those nodes
> and see if one of them isn't taking gets and puts.
>
> On Wed, Mar 20, 2013 at 9:58 AM, Christian Steinmann
>  wrote:
> > No summary.csv shows error for all inserts. Can i somehow determine which
> > node is not responding correct or in time
> >
> > Am 20.03.2013 17:15 schrieb "Evan Vigil-McClanahan" <
> emcclana...@basho.com>:
> >
> >> typically you get that error when one of the connections doesn't
> >> return for an entire reporting interval. Is this happening on every
> >> request?
> >>
> >> Note that for better riak performance, you'll want to raise
> >> concurrency to more than 1 per node.
> >>
> >> On Wed, Mar 20, 2013 at 9:00 AM, Christian Steinmann
> >>  wrote:
> >> > Hello,
> >> >
> >> > i installed a riak cluster with three nodes to make some tests and
> >> > document
> >> > the results for school. I also installed basho bench. When i run
> >> >
> >> > ./basho\_bench examples/httpraw.config
> >> >
> >> > I got this output:
> >> >
> >> > [warning] No data for op: {insert,insert}
> >> > 08:46:06.416 [info]
> >> > Errors:[{{insert,insert},3},{{{insert,insert},{post,timeout}},3}]
> >> >
> >> > The config looks like this:
> >> >
> >> > {mode, max}.
> >> >
> >> > {duration, 1}.
> >> >
> >> > {concurrent, 3}.
> >> >
> >> > {driver, basho\_bench\_driver\_http\_raw}.
> >> >
> >> > {value\_generator, {fixed\_bin, 300}}.
> >> >
> >> > {http\_raw\_port, 8098}.
> >> >
> >> > {operations, [{insert, 1}]}.
> >> >
> >> > {source\_dir, "foo"}.
> >> >
> >> > {log\_level,info}.
> >> >
> >> > {http\_raw\_ips, ["10.0.0.151", "10.0.0.152", "10.0.0.153"]}.
> >> >
> >> >
> >> > Iam not sure what goes wrong. With curl i can make successful GET
> calls
> >> > to
> >> > the "test" bucket with all ips.
> >> >
> >> > greetings Christian
> >> >
> >> > \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> >> > riak-users mailing list
> >> > riak-users@lists.basho.com
> >> > http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> >> >
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

