---
title: "Re: [Riak KV] Adding new algorithm"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-02-13T09:09:01-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15717"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15716"
author_name: "Christopher Meiklejohn"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-02-13T09:09:01-08:00
---



> On Feb 13, 2015, at 11:59 AM, nikhilrane  wrote:
> 
> Hello Chris,
> 
> thank you for the quick reply. To put simply, I am planning to change Riak
> in a way that it can support pluggable replication strategies. For instance,
> as Riak supports /backends/ selection through a simple property file, I
> would implement some replication algorithms and switch them using such a
> property.
> 
> My main motto is towards strict consistency algorithms. Hence excavating the
> "put" flow to start with. Will it be possible for you to guide me in some
> direction?
> 
> Thank you,
> Nikhil.
> 

Hi Nikhil,

Can you clarify which consistency models you’d like to support?

For instance, riak\_ensemble’s integration with riak\_kv shows a straightforward
example of getting single-key serializability, however, if you wanted to provide
something along the lines of causal consistency (or non-monotonic snapshot
isolation), you’ll most likely need to write a new coordinator mechanism and 
perform significant rewrites of the kv\_vnode, as some of these mechanisms
require locking, and the ability to store multiple versions of keys in the data
store.

- Chris

Christopher Meiklejohn
Senior Software Engineer
Basho Technologies, Inc.
cmeiklej...@basho.com


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

