---
title: "Re: Riak python client and Solr"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-08-19T13:19:11-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14742"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14741"
author_name: "Alex De la rosa"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-08-19T13:19:11-07:00
---


Seems I was wrong... the API doesn't complain but it doesn't perform the
sorting as I thought it should do... any clues on how to do it?

this:
r = client.fulltext\_search('ix\_images', 'site\_s:xxx AND keywords\_s:yyy')

plus sorting by "clickrate\_f desc"

Thanks!
Alex


On Tue, Aug 19, 2014 at 10:13 PM, Alex De la rosa 
wrote:

> Hi there,
>
> I was having the same problems too...
>
> this works fine:
> r = client.fulltext\_search('ix\_images', 'site\_s:xxx AND keywords\_s:yyy')
>
> but this gives the same error as yours:
> r = client.fulltext\_search('ix\_images', 'site\_s:xxx AND
> keywords\_s:yyy&sort="clickrate\_f desc"')
>
> Then I saw this way works:
> r = client.fulltext\_search('ix\_images', 'site\_s:xxx AND keywords\_s:yyy
> SORT:"clickrate\_f desc"')
>
> So try chaining parameters with semicolons.
>
> Thanks!
> Alex
>
>
> On Tue, Aug 19, 2014 at 10:08 PM, Sapre, Meghna A <
> meghna.a.sa...@intel.com> wrote:
>
>> Hi,
>>
>> I am trying to use the group and stats options with riak search. I get
>> expected results with http urls, but not with python-riak-client fulltext
>> pbc search.
>>
>> Here’s what I’m trying to do:
>>
>>
>>
>> q = 'build.type:CI&group=on&group.field=build.version'
>>
>> try:
>>
>> search\_results =
>> riak\_client.fulltext\_search(self.Result\_Index, q)
>>
>> except Exception as e:
>>
>> print e
>>
>> log.exception(e)
>>
>>
>>
>> This throws an error: no field name specified in query and no default
>> specified via 'df' param.
>>
>>
>>
>> The same query string works without the group options, and the complete
>> string works in the http API.
>>
>> Any suggestions on how to make this work?
>>
>>
>>
>> Thanks,
>>
>> Meghna
>>
>>
>>
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>
>>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

