---
title: "Re: Backup/restore progress/ETA?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-08-07T13:45:47-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11938"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg11918"
author_name: "Justin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-08-07T13:45:47-07:00
---


Would you expect a restore of this size to take this long?

My cluster is comprised of 6 nodes, bitcask, and ring size of 128.

Total of 1.2 million keys/objects in a single bucket.

I have some fairly large objects. A few, less than 10, are around if not
greater than 1GB. Less than 1000 are greater than 10MB but less than 100MB.

Hope this helps. Thanks
On Aug 6, 2013 3:34 PM, "Justin"  wrote:

> Hey Mark,
>
> ~ 613GB
>
> ls -lhtra /var/lib/riak/backups/all\_nodes.20130725.bak
> -rw-r--r-- 1 riak riak 613G Jul 25 20:47
> /var/lib/riak/backups/all\_nodes.20130725.bak
>
>
> On Tue, Aug 6, 2013 at 2:24 PM, Mark Phillips  wrote:
>
>> Hi Justin,
>>
>> For starters, how much data are you restoring?
>>
>> Mark
>>
>>
>> On Mon, Aug 5, 2013 at 2:46 PM, Justin  wrote:
>>
>>> Hello all,
>>>
>>> Is there any way to determine progress/percent complete?
>>>
>>> This has been running for 3 days now. I figured it would finish over the
>>> weekend but it hasn't.
>>>
>>> # riak-admin restore riak@ riak
>>> /var/lib/riak/backups/all\_nodes.20130725.bak
>>> Restoring from '/var/lib/riak/backups/all\_nodes.20130725.bak' to cluster
>>> to which 'riak@ belongs.
>>>
>>> I'm reluctant to kill it. It could be nearly complete OR it could be 3
>>> more days from finishing. The alternative is to clear my Riak cluster and
>>> re-import/ETL the data from scratch, which takes at least 5 days.
>>>
>>> In addition to determining progress for "restore", I'm also interested
>>> in determining progress for "backup".
>>>
>>> Thanks for the help.
>>>
>>> Kind regards,
>>>
>>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>>> riak-users mailing list
>>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>>
>>>
>>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

