---
title: "Re: Riak 2.0.0 RC1"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-07-21T15:02:14-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14524"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14522"
author_name: "Tom Santero"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-07-21T15:02:14-07:00
---


+1, it's very exciting to see this RC knowing how much work went into it's
making. Congrats all around.


On Mon, Jul 21, 2014 at 5:56 PM, Mark S Phillips 
wrote:

> Truly awesome work. Congratulations to you and the team, Jared.
>
> Mark
>
> On Mon, Jul 21, 2014 at 5:34 PM, Jared Morrow  wrote:
> > Riak-Users,
> >
> > Everyone at Basho is extremely happy to announce the public availability
> of
> > Riak 2.0.0 RC. As a release candidate, we do not recommend using it in
> > production, but it should be considered feature and API complete for Riak
> > 2.0 final. We reserve the right to make changes for any data-loss or
> severe
> > performance issues found post-RC, but these will not affect the API.
> >
> > This is our most ambitious release, with major new features throughout
> the
> > product. With that in mind, please take plenty of time to read through
> the
> > Release Notes. There are some important considerations regarding
> upgrades,
> > known issues, and packaging. The Release Notes are still a
> work-in-progress
> > and will be continually updated as we march towards 2.0 final. We have
> made
> > a lot of progress on our docs site for 2.0, but still have work to do
> before
> > final release. We appreciate your patience.
> >
> > Release Notes: https://github.com/basho/riak/blob/2.0/RELEASE-NOTES.md
> >
> > Downloads: http://docs.basho.com/riak/2.0.0/downloads/
> > Note: There will be minor tweaks to the download site to show the labels
> for
> > SuSE Enterprise Linux and Ubuntu 14.04 packages
> >
> > APT/YUM Repos (see release-notes re: this change):
> > https://packagecloud.io/basho/riak/install Note: If you are downloading
> the
> > files directly, use our docs site. For apt/yum repo install, use
> > packagecloud.
> >
> > Thanks to everyone in our community,
> > -Team Basho
> >
> >
> > \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> > riak-users mailing list
> > riak-users@lists.basho.com
> > http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> >
>
>
>
> --
> Mark
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

