---
title: "Re: Should content-type not be required?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-09-11T01:52:35-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12230"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12229"
author_name: "Vincenzo Vitale"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-09-11T01:52:35-07:00
---


I'm sorry I cannot disclose all the details but essentially for this bucket
it's enough to check if a specific item is already present or not.
All the information identifying the item is part of the key so there is no
need to have anything in the body.

A generic example could be a discount voucher system where the voucher id
is unique. As soon as the voucher has been used a new item is created in
the bucket \*used-vouchers\* and every time the system needs to validate a
voucher, then it's enough to check if that id already exists in the bucket.
Who really used the voucher can be part of another bucket (named orders
maybe?) and associated with a secondary index to the voucher, with slower
performances compared to key lookup.


Does it make sense?


Vincenzo




On Wed, Sep 11, 2013 at 4:22 AM, Sam Elliott  wrote:

> I'm interested to know why you're trying to store an empty body in Riak.
> Surely just don't even make the request to Riak? I guess I could be
> overlooking something obvious.
>
> Sam
> --
> Sam Elliott
> Engineer
> sam.elli...@basho.com
> --
>
>
> On Tuesday, 10 September 2013 at 6:29PM, Vincenzo Vitale wrote:
>
> > Hi Sam,
> > thanks for the fast reply.
> >
> > In my company we normally use your third suggestion and indeed it's a
> robust strategy.
> >
> > At the moment we are relying on a riak client based on spray (
> https://github.com/agemooij/riak-scala-client) so even if we set the
> Content-Type - when the body is empty - it doesn't get to the final request
> being dispatched.
> >
> > Our workaround is to have a content body equal to the one byte carriage
> return.
> > It's not a big deal...
> >
> > Writing to the mailing list was mainly because curious to know your
> thoughts about this :)
> >
> >
> > Have a good day,
> > V.
> >
> >
> >
> > On Wed, Sep 11, 2013 at 12:03 AM, Sam Elliott  sam.elli...@basho.com)> wrote:
> > > The content-type is important for Riak KV: Various clients will use it
> to identify the difference between a response where the whole body is the
> key, or a response that contains siblings (if you have allow\_mult=true).
> > >
> > > I suggest finding or creating a content type, so that this is clearer
> to your app. It will also allow you to version your objects better. Here
> are a few suggestions (of course replace the text between the < >):
> > > - application/octet-stream - this is usually used for binary data, and
> is the easiest thing to set the content-type to.
> > > - application/vnd.. - a
> vendor-specific type, which you can create yourself
> > > - application/vnd...v number> - another vendor-specific type, which supports versioning.
> > >
> > > You don't have to use the information in your final app, but it is
> used by riak and riak clients, so that's why we require it.
> > >
> > > --
> > > Sam Elliott
> > > Engineer
> > > sam.elli...@basho.com (mailto:sam.elli...@basho.com)
> > > --
> > >
> > >
> > > On Tuesday, 10 September 2013 at 5:03PM, Vincenzo Vitale wrote:
> > >
> > > > Suppose I want to just store keys in a bucket without any body, this
> make sense in scenarios where the key completely identify the entity. Is it
> possible to use the riak http api without including the content-type header?
> > > > Looking at the http specifications, content–type is not mandatory or
> suggested when the body is empty:
> > > > http://www.w3.org/Protocols/rfc2616/rfc2616-sec7.html#sec7.2.1
> > > > and it's probably a good argument to say that if the entity message
> is empty then the content type doesn't really make sense.
> > > > Personally I think that just the existence of an http entity - body
> or not body – is sufficient to justify a "type"; it's unfortunate that any
> other higher type (entity type maybe?) - decoupled from what is defined as
> content - exist in the spec.
> > > > Framework like spray are quite strict about this, not setting any
> content type when the content is empty:
> > > >
> https://github.com/spray/spray/blob/master/spray-http/src/main/scala/spray/http/HttpEntity.scala#L74
> > > > how to deal with such situation? Adding a fake content because of
> this data store constraint doesn't seems right.
> > > >
> > > >
> > > > Thanks,
> > > > Vincenzo.
> > > >
> > > > --
> > > > If your e-mail inbox is out of control, check out
> http://sanebox.com/t/mmzve. I love it.
> > > > \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> > > > riak-users mailing list
> > > > riak-users@lists.basho.com (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
> (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
> > > > http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> > >
> >
> >
> >
> >
> > --
> > If your e-mail inbox is out of control, check out
> http://sanebox.com/t/mmzve. I love it.
>
>
>
>


-- 
If your e-mail inbox is out of control, check out http://sanebox.com/t/mmzve.
I love it.
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

