---
title: "Re: riak 2.0 pre11.1 doesn't start"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-03-17T14:50:34-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13819"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13818"
author_name: "Buri Arslon"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-03-17T14:50:34-07:00
---


Thanks, Michael.

I checked ports and made sure they were free. I even rebooted my server to
start from clean. Didn't help.


On Mon, Mar 17, 2014 at 3:07 PM, Michael Dillon
wrote:

> Best way to do a quick check to see if Riak started OK is to run
>
> netstat -lnp
>
> and see if something is listening on the Riak ports like 8089 or whatever
> you have changed it too. If something is listening, then the PID that is
> doing it is listed. Kill that PID and you have killed Riak and can start it
> normally.
>
> Of course it is better to use the normal way for starting and stopping
> Riak, and never use the -9 option on kill.
>
> Also, you really should be looking at log files to figure out problems.
> There are several in /var/log/riak
>
> Actually, now that I think about it, you probably cannot run riak console
> if riak is already running. Either start riak using "riak console" INSTEAD
> OF riak start, or use riak attach to connect to an already running one. But
> the messages that have already been displayed will not reappear. Look in
> the logs.
>
>
>
> On Mon, Mar 17, 2014 at 1:58 PM, Buri Arslon  wrote:
>
>> Hi guys!
>>
>> ./riak start is giving me "wait\_for\_erlang" error. I had added a detailed
>> info here: https://github.com/basho/riak/issues/512
>>
>> any hints?
>>
>> thanks,
>> Buriwoy
>>
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>
>>
>
>
> --
> PageFreezer.com
> #200 - 311 Water Street
> Vancouver, BC V6B 1B8
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

