---
title: "Re: distribution of data among riak cluster physical nodes"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-10-11T16:13:45-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12608"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12593"
author_name: "kzhang"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-10-11T16:13:45-07:00
---


I read the documentation again
(http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/dev/references/http/fetch-object/).

r - (read quorum) how many replicas need to agree when retrieving the object
(default is defined by the bucket)
pr - how many primary replicas need to be online when doing the read
(default is defined by the bucket)
basic\_quorum - whether to return early in some failure cases (eg. when r=1
and you get 2 errors and a success basic\_quorum=true would return an error)
(default is defined by the bucket)
notfound\_ok - whether to treat notfounds as successful reads for the
purposes of R (default is defined by the bucket)

If I have:

r = 1
notfound\_ok=true
basic\_quorum = true

does the client get notfound after 1 reply (since notfound\_ok=true and r =
1) or after 2 replies (since basic\_quorum = true)?

Or if I have:

r = 1
notfound\_ok=false
basic\_quorum = true

the client gets notfound if the first two replies are notfound? if the first
reply is found, the client gets found? if the first reply is notfound, the
second is found, does the client get found, or have to wait for the third
vnode (in my environment, N=3) to reply?

In the next setup:

r = 1
notfound\_ok=false
basic\_quorum = false

only when all three replies are notfound, then the client gets notfound?
otherwise, it is found.

The last one:

r = 1
notfound\_ok=true
basic\_quorum = false

which is the default. if the first reply is found, then client gets found.
if the first reply is notfound, clients gets notfound. 









--
View this message in context: 
http://riak-users.197444.n3.nabble.com/distribution-of-data-among-riak-cluster-physical-nodes-tp4029398p4029447.html
Sent from the Riak Users mailing list archive at Nabble.com.

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

