---
title: "Re: Tag 2.0.0rc1 ??"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-07-14T13:42:07-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14496"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14494"
author_name: "Jared Morrow"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-07-14T13:42:07-07:00
---


Dave,

Yes, I tagged RC1 on Friday. The plan for us is to do some finishing work
on docs, some last rounds of tests to be done, and then put it out to the
public sometime soon. I've learned to not give firm dates at this point,
but I'd personally be very disappointed if something wasn't in your hands
by the end of this week. There will always be more work to do, but we plan
to get it out to the public ASAP.

To bring everyone in the loop, once we hit RC stage, we treat it like a
true release candidate, keeping all changes out unless they fix a major
bug. Usually the limits us to dataloss bugs, but recently we allowed for
some performance changes to go into RC's as well. Sometimes it is hard to
get an exact test of large-cluster performance when things are still
changing before RC. With that in mind, using RC you can expect no API and
command-line changes before final release. Right now even though Riak
server has reached RC, not all of our clients are done quite yet as they
have to lag behind Riak proper a bit.

It has taken a long time for us to hit RC, and trust us that no one feels
this pain more than us. We thank all our users for being patient with us
through this extremely long 2.0 cycle, we have put a lot of features into
2.0 and that stretched us more thin that we initially hoped. Even so, we
didn't skimp on testing, so that is why RC is hitting now instead of a few
months ago.

Thanks again for the support from all of our users.
-Jared




On Mon, Jul 14, 2014 at 1:46 PM, Dave Martorana  wrote:

> Hi!
>
> I've been kind of holding off development for a bit while the Basho team
> puts the polish on 2.0 - and then I saw a tag - 2.0.0rc1 - in Github from 3
> days ago.
>
> Has riak 2.0 quietly moved in to RC mode? And if so, are we well in to
> feature freeze now?
>
> Is it OK that I'm posting this to the mailing list?
>
> Thanks!
>
> Dave
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

