---
title: "Re: Getting HTTP port info for all nodes in a cluster"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-08-12T09:02:40-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16416"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16413"
author_name: "mark"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-08-12T09:02:40-07:00
---


Thanks for the thoughts here. I do get a bit carried away sometimes, 
wanting to support fringe cases. I'll go forward assuming the same port 
number.


On 2015-08-12 10:27, Dmitri Zagidulin wrote:

If you know one node's HTTP listening port, you know them all -- all
the nodes are supposed to listen on the same ports. (Otherwise, load
balancing gets awkward, etc).

A case where different nodes in the cluster are listening on different
ports is exotic enough to not be worth supporting. (Plus, there's no
way to programmatically discover them from Go).

You can definitely discover the ip addresses of the other nodes via
API, though. But not the ports.

On Wed, Aug 12, 2015 at 4:16 AM, Mark Wilkinson 
wrote:


Is there a way via the HTTP API to get the HTTP port the other nodes
on
a cluster are listening on, assuming of course that I know one of
the
nodes' listening port?

I am trying to find a way to pass in connection information for one
of
the nodes in a cluster to an app I am writing in Go, and then
programmatically determine the addresses of the other nodes in the
cluster so I can connect to them and gather performance data.
Assuming I
always use default ports, this isn't an issue, but I would like this
to
work for non-default, unknown ports.

Thanks for any suggestions!

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
[1]




Links:
------
[1] http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com



\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

