---
title: "RE: Riak-CS-Control"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-07-02T17:37:48-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11377"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg11375"
author_name: "Guy Morton"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-07-02T17:37:48-07:00
---


Done, and all apps restarted. No difference. 

Here's what I get in the logs:

2013-07-02 17:32:53.578 [error] <0.12662.0> webmachine error: path="/users"
{"create\_path not a 
string",{error,{error,badarg,[{erlang,binary\_to\_list,[undefined],[]},{riak\_cs\_control\_wm\_users,extract\_key\_id,1,[{file,"src/riak\_cs\_control\_wm\_users.erl"},{line,60}]},{riak\_cs\_control\_wm\_users,create\_path,2,[{file,"src/riak\_cs\_control\_wm\_users.erl"},{line,68}]},{webmachine\_resource,resource\_call,3,[{file,"src/webmachine\_resource.erl"},{line,183}]},{webmachine\_resource,do,3,[{file,"src/webmachine\_resource.erl"},{line,141}]},{webmachine\_decision\_core,resource\_call,1,[{file,"src/webmachine\_decision\_core.erl"},{line,48}]},{webmachine\_decision\_core,decision,1,[{file,"src/webmachine\_decision\_core.erl"},{line,440}]},{webmachine\_decision\_core,handle\_request,2,[{file,"src/webmachine\_decision\_core.erl"},{line,33}]}]}}}


--
Guy Morton
Web Development Manager
Brüel & Kjær EMS

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
From: Christopher Meiklejohn [cmeiklej...@basho.com]
Sent: Wednesday, 3 July 2013 12:59 AM
To: Guy Morton
Cc: riak-users@lists.basho.com
Subject: Re: Riak-CS-Control

Hi Guy,

Can you try changing cs\_proxy\_host and cs\_proxy\_port to the same values as 
cs\_hostname and cs\_port? Right now, it's configured for localhost and a port 
that Riak CS is not listening on.

I believe you are experiencing the same issue as outlined here:

https://github.com/basho/riak\_cs\_control/issues/31

- Chris

--
Christopher Meiklejohn
Software Engineer
Basho Technologies, Inc.



On Tuesday, July 2, 2013 at 3:36 AM, Guy Morton wrote:

> Hi Chris
>
> The video didn't include any information that I hadn't figured out. My 
> problem is that I can't get it to work. I get the nice riak-cs admin page in 
> my browser on port 8000 but it shows no users (perhaps reasonable because I 
> only have succeeded in creating a single user so far - the admin user) and 
> the create user function fails (with the error previously mentioned).
>
> I've sent you my config files, though since then I've tried what feels like a 
> thousand variants all to no avail. If the config is wrong enough riak-cs 
> won't start, and when it does I can't do a thing.
>
> I'm sure Riak cs is a great product, once it's set up! I just don't seem to 
> be able to get over that hurdle.
>
> --
> Guy Morton
> Web Development Manager
> Brüel & Kjær EMS
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> From: Christopher Meiklejohn [cmeiklej...@basho.com 
> (mailto:cmeiklej...@basho.com)]
> Sent: Monday, 1 July 2013 4:26 PM
> To: Guy Morton
> Cc: riak-users@lists.basho.com (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
> Subject: Re: Riak-CS-Control
>
> Hi Guy,
>
> Here is a good video introduction to configuring Riak CS Control:
>
> http://basho.com/getting-started-with-riak-cs-control/
>
> Let me know if you run into any specific issues and I'm happy to help. I'm 
> also lurking in the #riak room on Freenode (nick: cmeiklejohn) if you need 
> further help (any of us should be able to!)
>
> - Chris
>
> --
> Christopher Meiklejohn
> Software Engineer
> Basho Technologies, Inc.
>
>
>
> On Monday, July 1, 2013 at 2:14 AM, Guy Morton wrote:
>
> > Also, I just found this - riak-cs-control... None of the install/config 
> > documents I saw previously mentioned it, or that it should be configured, 
> > or how. It seems to control the web interface referred to in my last 
> > email...
> >
> > Where is the most up-to-date info about Riak CS and how to set it up? I am 
> > trying to set it up on Debian squeeze and I'm still floundering. I seem 
> > very close to having it working, but not quite. It's a bit frustrating! Is 
> > it just me, or is it complex to get working?
> >
> > --
> > Guy Morton
> > Web Development Manager
> > Brüel & Kjær EMS
> > This e-mail is confidential and may be read, copied and used only by the 
> > intended recipient. If you have received it in error, please contact the 
> > sender immediately by return e-mail. Please then delete the e-mail and do 
> > not disclose its contents to any other person.
> >
> > \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> > riak-users mailing list
> > riak-users@lists.basho.com (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
> > http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
>
>
>
>
> This e-mail is confidential and may be read, copied and used only by the 
> intended recipient. If you have received it in error, please contact the 
> sender immediately by return e-mail. Please then delete the e-mail and do not 
> disclose its contents to any other person.



This e-mail is confidential and may be read, copied and used only by the 
intended recipient. If you have received it in error, please contact the sender 
immediately by return e-mail. Please then delete the e-mail and do not disclose 
its contents to any other person.

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

