---
title: "Re: riak 2.2.3, allow_mult=false but still siblings"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2019-04-12T04:49:09-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg18610"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg18609"
author_name: "Russell Brown via riak-users"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2019-04-12T04:49:09-07:00
---



Can you let us see the bucket type definition, please?


Can you show me the headers from the curl command that returns siblings, 
please?



I want to say that what you are seeing is unpossible (from what I 
remember of the code.) But I don't remember the 2.2.3 release process, 
and I'd like to see some more evidence before I look at the code again.



I wonder if you remember the history of the bucket/bucket type in 
question. Has it had changes to allow\_mult etc?



Cheers

Russell

On 12/04/2019 12:29, ジョハンガル wrote:

Hello,
​
I would be thankful is somebody could help me with some weird 
abnormalities.

​
curl https://~~~/types/THE-TYPE/bucket/~~~/keys/~~~ returns siblings
​
However the corresponding type has "allow\_mult" set to false...
​​
The phenomenon appear with both 
"last\_write\_wins=true;dvv\_enabled=false" and 
"last\_write\_wins=false;dvv\_enabled=true".
The backend is leveldb (in a multi configuration), secondary indices 
are used.

​
The cluster is an old cluster (pre 2.0) that received rolling updates 
to 2.0 (remove node, reinstall riak with new config, read node).

Currently 2.2.3
We used to hit that problem a lot until we found out about it and 
fixed the problem https://github.com/basho/yokozuna/issues/389

I don't if it has any kind of relevancy though.
​
Does somebody have some kind of hint? Or diagnostic command I might 
run? Am I missing something obvious?

​
Best regards,
​


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

