---
title: "Fwd: Beginning with Search"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-11-14T07:08:45-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12981"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12962"
author_name: "Ari King"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-11-14T07:08:45-08:00
---


Just realized my reply didn't include the riak user list. Forwarding it now.

Hi Luke,

I'm assuming you're talking about Yokozuna (Riak Search 2.0). Answers
> inline...
>

Sorry, I should have mentioned that I am using Riak 1.4.2


> Yes. You can POST data to the /yz/extract URL to see how your JSON (or
> XML) is parsed by the extractor.
>
> > 2. If I want to return more than just key/value pairs what options do I
> have aside from using search queries as input for MapReduce jobs?
>
> When search returns data it can return values as well, depending on
> the Solr schema being used. Ideally you build your schema to index and
> store just the data needed by your application.
>

In some instances the entire object is required, is there another option
aside from storing the each key/value pair of the object?


>
> > 3. When it comes to "children" objects, is it better to search for
> objects or rely on numerous links?
>
> I'm not sure what you mean here. Generally, child objects can be
> stored either as part of their parent (nested) in a value, or as
> values in another bucket. In the latter case, the parent object just
> has a reference to the child's ID (and vice-versa, if necessary). The
> decisions you make when modeling your data should take access, update
> and search patterns into account, since all impact the shape of the
> objects you store.
>

The "relationship" I'm attempting to model is a one-to-many, where the
"children" have pieces of the "parent." I was previously considering
"linking" each "child" to the "parent" and link walking when I need all the
children. Alternatively, I was thinking of searching for the "parent\_id" in
the "children". Is one approach recommended over the other?

Thanks.

-Ari
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

