---
title: "Re: C# client (CI) questions re: IfNotModified"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-10-02T15:19:15-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12476"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12467"
author_name: "Alex Rice"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-10-02T15:19:15-07:00
---


Hmm so so I cannot replicate anything causal between the
CommunicationError and the C lusterOffline: Unable to access
functioning Riak node. I guess the cluster really was going offline
from my benchmarking!

However, I do always a CommunicationError when Put-ing a key that has
changed, when using IfNotModified = true. Just wondering if that is to
be expected or maybe worth filing an enhancement request on github?
Because it's not really a CommunicationError :)

Alex

On Wed, Oct 2, 2013 at 2:52 PM, Alex Rice  wrote:
> Just trying to make sure I understand what is the proper usage of this
> option IfNotModified in CI.
>
> // (first do a Get of the object)
> // do a SetObject on the riakobject with my changes
> var putOpts = new RiakPutOptions () { IfNotModified = true };
> // do a Put with those Options
>
> When the put fails, because I have forced another client to have
> modified the key, I get a result back with:
>
> resultCode = CommunicationError
> message = Riak returned an error. Code '0'. Message: modified
>
> So the actual condition is kind of buried in the message string which
> is not ideal. Maybe there could be a first-class resultCode named
> Modified?
>
> Also I then seem to get subsequently
> ClusterOffline: Unable to access functioning Riak node
>
> Is it possible that CI is interpreting the CommunicationError
> internally to think the node is down or something? Just curious- maybe
> the unable to access functioning Riak node is because I'm running
> basho\_bench simultaneously? Could be a co-incidence, but it doesn't
> seem like it.
> Thanks,
> Alex

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

