---
title: "Re: Riak HTTPS listener hangs"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-04-21T09:27:15-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14117"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14114"
author_name: "Luke Bakken"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-04-21T09:27:15-07:00
---


Hi Adam,

If possible, could you please mail me directly your app.config,
vm.args and archive of log files (/var/log/riak) from one node, and
HAProxy configuration?

Have you tried having HAProxy as the SSL endpoint and then use
unencrypted HTTP traffic between HAProxy and Riak? I believe it's
typical to use HAProxy as the HTTPS endpoint rather than proxy the SSL
connection to the back-end services. I'm wondering if there's
something about using it in this manner that is contributing to this
scenario. Just a thought.

Thanks.
--
Luke Bakken
CSE
lbak...@basho.com


On Fri, Apr 18, 2014 at 9:22 AM, Adam Leko  wrote:
> We have a 5-node Riak cluster and we're having problems keeping the HTTPS
> listener running properly. The problem typically manifests itself a few
> hours after Riak is started. When it happens, the HTTPS listener on a Riak
> node will accept new connections but will never respond to them. Connections
> made via curl or OpenSSL's s\_client show the client sending the SSL hello
> but never getting a response. When this happens, the OS does show pending
> data for the socket that isn't being processed (trimmed output):
>
> # ss -lt
> State Recv-Q Send-Q Local Address:Port Peer Address:Port
> LISTEN 129 128 1.2.3.4:8098 \*:\*
>
> One of the times the Erlang VM was in this state I grabbed a crash dump via
> SIGUSR1. The Mochiweb process shows up in a "Waiting" state:
>
> =proc:<0.190.0>
> State: Waiting
> Name: 'https\_1.2.3.4:8098\_mochiweb'
> Spawned as: proc\_lib:init\_p/5
> Spawned by: <0.150.0>
> Started: Thu Apr 17 21:01:12 2014
> Message queue length: 0
> Number of heap fragments: 0
> Heap fragment data: 0
> Link list: [#Port<0.3873>, <0.4203.0>, <0.150.0>, <0.5788.48>, <0.12559.49>,
> <0.4819.45>, <0.17031.51>, <0.19186.51>, <0.18428.51>, <0.25106.51>,
> <0.20568.51>, <0.16399.51>, <0.25307.51>, <0.25382.51>, <0.31884.51>,
> <0.30289.51>, <0.29247.51>, <0.25168.51>]
> Reductions: 50203
> Stack+heap: 1597
> OldHeap: 0
> Heap unused: 495
> OldHeap unused: 0
> Program counter: 0x00007fb03fea4de8 (gen\_server:loop/6 + 264)
> CP: 0x0000000000000000 (invalid)
> arity = 0
>
> All the processes linked from the main Mochiweb process are also in a
> "Waiting" state. If I connect to the riak console and manually kill the
> mochiweb process (via exit(pid(...), kill)), its supervisor restarts it and
> the node starts servicing HTTPS requests again.
>
> We do have the Erlang cluster behind haproxy but the SSL connections hang
> even if you try to connect locally from the machine running the RIak
> service. We're using a lightly modified config from what is suggested in the
> docs
> (http://docs.basho.com/riak/1.3.1/cookbooks/Load-Balancing-and-Proxy-Configuration/)
> with a much lower max connections setting. When the hangs happen, netstat
> only shows a handful of open connections to the haproxy front end.
>
> It's also worth pointing out that when the hangs happen, there are no
> messages that show up in the log files that indicate any errors. The rest of
> the services on the Riak node don't appear to be affected as well - we still
> get periodic anti-"entropy" exchange log messages and all the usual suspects
> in riak-admin status check out.
>
> We are using a pretty standard OS configuration - Ubuntu 12.04 LTS with the
> Basho apt repo, riak 1.4.8-1, erts-5.9.1 that comes bundled with the Riak
> packages.
>
> Are there any known issues with accessing Riak over its HTTPS interface or
> any known problems with erts' SSL implementation? As of now we're forced to
> use periodic rolling restarts on the nodes in our production cluster to keep
> the HTTPS listeners functional, which is a pretty disgusting workaround.
>
> Thanks for taking the time to read this. I'd appreciate any insight or
> guidance on how to address/track down this problem.
>
> -Adam Leko
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

