---
title: "Re: setting n_val"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-06-10T10:22:28-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11244"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg11242"
author_name: "Alexander Ilyin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-06-10T10:22:28-07:00
---


John, Eric,

thank you for your answers.
I understood that running Riak on one node is a bad idea. But having 5
nodes in cluster is too expensive for us right now.
Which settings I have to tune to get a decent performance on 3 node
cluster? 100% availability is not necessary for us but
small response time of get requests is "must have". I think I can set
n\_val=2, r=1 and w=1 to achieve this. Is there something else?

On 10 June 2013 20:25, Eric Redmond  wrote:

> Alexander,
>
> The simplest answer is that we never recommend running Riak on one node.
> The recommended minimum is 5, but you could possibly get away with 3 (the
> default repl value).
>
> There is a blog post about this from last year, explaining why:
> http://basho.com/why-your-riak-cluster-should-have-at-least-five-nodes/
>
> Eric
>
> On Jun 10, 2013, at 9:01 AM, Alexander Ilyin 
> wrote:
>
> Hi all,
>
> I have a question regarding setting the n\_val.
> In the documentation (
> http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/tutorials/fast-track/Tunable-CAP-Controls-in-Riak/)
> it is stated that:
>
> n\_val must be greater than 0 and less than or equal to the number of
> actual nodes in your cluster to get all the benefits of replication.
> And, we advise against modifying the n\_val of a bucket after its initial
> creation as this may result in failed reads because the new
> value may not be replicated to all the appropriate partitions.
>
> But this seems contradictory to me. Which value I have to set if I'm
> setting up one node right now but planning to add second one later?
> Setting n\_val=2 means this value will be greater than actual number of
> nodes. But setting n\_val=1 is also not advisable since
> I will have to change it later to n\_val=2 (I'm planning to have two
> replicas in the end).
>
> I'm also concerned about the performance in case of one node and n\_val=2.
> Will it degrade since both replicas are stored on the same server?
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

