---
title: "RE: Riak Data-UI"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-03-04T09:36:41-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10314"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg10087"
author_name: "Chad Engler"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-03-04T09:36:41-08:00
---


I am, just haven't had time to teach myself erlang! Should be getting some 
training at a conference soon, then will probably give it a go. The 
"Introductory" tag helps though, thanks!

-Chad


-----Original Message-----
From: Christopher Meiklejohn [mailto:cmeiklej...@basho.com] 
Sent: Friday, March 01, 2013 5:40 PM
To: Chad Engler
Cc: Christopher Meiklejohn; riak-users@lists.basho.com
Subject: Re: Riak Data-UI

Hey Chad, 

I just want to let you know that I'm opening a bunch of issues on Riak Control 
with the tag "Introductory", which are smaller items which need to be addressed 
if you're interested in contributing.

- Chris 

--
Christopher Meiklejohn
Software Engineer
Basho Technologies, Inc.



On Friday, February 15, 2013 at 9:50 AM, Chad Engler wrote:

> Very cool! This is really helpful for getting a cold-start on 
> riak\_control. I guess I will need to learn me some erlang, JavaScript 
> is more of my strong suit :Ps
> 
> -Chad
> 
> 
> -----Original Message-----
> From: Christopher Meiklejohn [mailto:cmeiklej...@basho.com]
> Sent: Thursday, February 14, 2013 1:31 PM
> To: Chad Engler
> Cc: Ian Ha; riak-users@lists.basho.com 
> (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
> Subject: Re: Riak Data-UI
> 
> Hi Chad,
> 
> I've started sketching out contribution instructions and guidelines here:
> 
> https://github.com/basho/riak\_control/wiki/Contributing-to-Riak-Contro
> l
> 
> I'd appreciate any feedback on how this could be clearer, or more helpful.
> 
> - Chris
> 
> --
> Christopher Meiklejohn
> Software Engineer
> Basho Technologies, Inc.
> 
> 
> 
> On Monday, February 11, 2013 at 2:17 PM, Chad Engler wrote:
> 
> > Perfect! Thanks Chris, look forward to getting my hands dirty.
> > 
> > -Chad
> > 
> > 
> > -----Original Message-----
> > From: Christopher Meiklejohn [mailto:cmeiklej...@basho.com]
> > Sent: Monday, February 11, 2013 12:53 PM
> > To: Chad Engler
> > Cc: Ian Ha; riak-users@lists.basho.com 
> > (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
> > Subject: Re: Riak Data-UI
> > 
> > Hi Chad,
> > 
> > First off, let me apologize for my delayed reply. The blizzard 
> > caused me to be away from my computer a bit longer than I would have 
> > liked to. ;)
> > 
> > I'm in complete agreement with you regarding the roadmap and a document 
> > assisting people in putting together a development environment and 
> > contributing.
> > 
> > I'm going to be working today to put together a contributors document on 
> > Riak Control and will post back to the list once it's been completed. In 
> > regards to the roadmap, once we decide which features will be targeted for 
> > the next release, I'll have issues created for each of these on the GitHub 
> > project, which will be publicly visible.
> > 
> > Thanks for being part of the community, and do not hesitate to contact me 
> > (on list preferably, for the benefit of the community) if you have any 
> > further questions or feedback.
> > 
> > - Chris
> > 
> > --
> > Christopher Meiklejohn
> > Software Engineer
> > Basho Technologies, Inc.
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > On Monday, February 11, 2013 at 9:27 AM, Chad Engler wrote:
> > 
> > > Just bumping this, I think the most important part is if there is a 
> > > roadmap, or a way to get involved. Object browsing and disk/merge stats 
> > > are important features that would be really helpful and if there are docs 
> > > on how we can get started contributing to Riak Control, that would be 
> > > great.
> > > 
> > > -Chad
> > > 
> > > From: Ian Ha [mailto:i...@blutrumpet.com]
> > > Sent: Thursday, February 07, 2013 10:09 AM
> > > To: Chad Engler
> > > Cc: Christopher Meiklejohn; riak-users@lists.basho.com 
> > > (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
> > > (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
> > > Subject: Re: Riak Data-UI
> > > 
> > > Also: Is there an ETA on Riak Control?
> > > 
> > > On Thu, Feb 7, 2013 at 10:08 AM, Ian Ha  > > (mailto:i...@blutrumpet.com)> wrote:
> > > +1.
> > > 
> > > 
> > > Developing a comprehensive admin console would be great.
> > > 
> > > 
> > > I would add merge statistics to Chad's feature requests. Would be nice to 
> > > see who how much disk space is saved during merges, which merge/threshold 
> > > triggers were hit, and possible disk usage at that time.
> > > 
> > > 
> > > On Wed, Feb 6, 2013 at 2:21 PM, Chad Engler  > > (mailto:chad.eng...@patlive.com)> wrote:
> > > 
> > > 
> > > > Some of my favorite features of Futon were the ability to edit the 
> > > > configuration of the server from the web interface, check job status 
> > > > (compaction, view indexing, etc), and used almost all the time was the 
> > > > overview to see data size and number of documents:
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > This little table was the best because I could immediately see who is 
> > > > using what, how many documents are there (many times to make sure the 
> > > > count is going up at a rate that it should be); and of course I could 
> > > > run map-reduces in there as well, but I understand that works a bit 
> > > > differently in Riak.
> > > > 
> > > > Some other nice-to-haves would be:
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > · Paged-Object browser
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > o You can jump to a single value if you know the key
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > o Links can be clicked through to view the different linked 
> > > > values
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > · Create/Delete/Modify buckets and bucket attributes
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > · Graphs for stats
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > o I'm not sure if history for the /stats call is saved somewhere 
> > > > so I'm not sure if this is possible without a little overhead
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > o Right now I use the munin plugins, but I'm not sure if I get 
> > > > the full benefit of all the stats in there
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > · More intelligent log viewer
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > o Erlang logs are pretty nasty if you aren't into the language, 
> > > > it would be nice to have a more "parsed" view into what an error 
> > > > actually \*means\*
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > · Love the memory usage, and ring partition usage but some disk 
> > > > stats would be nice
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > o On the node list it would be nice to see disk space usage 
> > > > and/or iops as well
> > > > 
> > > > I wouldn't mind contributing to the project, I just don't see a file on 
> > > > "contributing", or the roadmap for Riak Control, or a backlog, or 
> > > > anything like that so if I wasn't sure where to spend time if I was to.
> > > > 
> > > > -Chad
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > -----Original Message-----
> > > > From: Christopher Meiklejohn [mailto:cmeiklej...@basho.com]
> > > > Sent: Wednesday, February 06, 2013 2:07 PM
> > > > To: Chad Engler
> > > > Cc: riak-users@lists.basho.com 
> > > > (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
> > > > Subject: Re: Riak Data-UI
> > > > 
> > > > Hi Chad,
> > > > 
> > > > We decided to focus our development on Riak Control moving forward on 
> > > > administration features, specifically understanding how your cluster is 
> > > > performing, managing node addition and removal and visualizing 
> > > > distribution of data throughout the ring.
> > > > 
> > > > However, I'd be very interested in hearing which features of Futon you 
> > > > find most useful and what you're looking for in a UI for Riak.
> > > > 
> > > > Thanks!
> > > > 
> > > > - Chris
> > > > 
> > > > --
> > > > Christopher Meiklejohn
> > > > Software Engineer
> > > > Basho Technologies, Inc.
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > On Wednesday, February 6, 2013 at 2:02 PM, Chad Engler wrote:
> > > > 
> > > > > Hey guys,
> > > > > 
> > > > > I've found that with CouchDB an interface like Futon is extremely 
> > > > > helpful. I understand that Riak Control was going to have 
> > > > > object-browsing features, but they have been pushed-back and/or 
> > > > > abandoned. Is there a data browser out there that is easy to use and 
> > > > > provides features similar to Futon? I've looked at Rekon, and it just 
> > > > > isn't very useful IMO.
> > > > > 
> > > > > Any pointers would be appreciated.
> > > > > 
> > > > > Thanks,
> > > > > 
> > > > > Chad Engler
> > > > > Telephony Programmer
> > > > > PATLive
> > > > > 1.800.775.7790 x746 (tel:1.800.775.7790%20x746) 
> > > > > chad.eng...@patlive.com (mailto:chad.eng...@patlive.com)
> > > > > (mailto:chad.eng...@patlive.com)
> > > > > 
> > > > > Hosted Communications | Friendly Service www.patlive.com 
> > > > > (http://www.patlive.com)
> > > > > (http://www.patlive.com) (http://www.patlive.com/)
> > > > > 
> > > > > 
> > > > > 
> > > > > \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> > > > > riak-users mailing list
> > > > > riak-users@lists.basho.com (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
> > > > > (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
> > > > > http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho
> > > > > .com
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> > > > riak-users mailing list
> > > > riak-users@lists.basho.com (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
> > > > http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.c
> > > > om
> > > 
> > > 
> > > 
> > > 
> > > 
> > > 
> > > 
> > > 
> > > 
> > > 
> > > 
> > > 
> > > \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> > > riak-users mailing list
> > > riak-users@lists.basho.com (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
> > > http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> > 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com



\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

