---
title: "Re: anti_entropy_expire"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-01-03T06:14:00-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13354"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13348"
author_name: "Edgar Veiga"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-01-03T06:14:00-08:00
---


By the way,

I think that the number of repaired key is pretty high.

2014-01-03 06:33:42.857 [info]
<0.31440.2586>@riak\_kv\_exchange\_fsm:key\_exchange:206 Repaired 1491787 keys
during active anti-entropy exchange of
{468137243207554840987117797979434404733540892672,3} between
{473846233978378680511350941857232385279071879168,'riak@192.168.20.112'}
and {479555224749202520035584085735030365824602865664,'riak@192.168.20.107'}

I have few but consistent lines like this (every two hours, during this
process).

Best regards.

On 2 January 2014 10:05, Edgar Veiga  wrote:

> This is the only thing related to AAE that exists in my app.config. I
> haven't changed any default values...
>
> %% Enable active anti-entropy subsystem + optional debug
> messages:
> %% {anti\_entropy, {on|off, []}},
> %% {anti\_entropy, {on|off, [debug]}},
> {anti\_entropy, {on, []}},
>
> %% Restrict how fast AAE can build hash trees. Building the
> tree
> %% for a given partition requires a full scan over that
> partition's
> %% data. Once built, trees stay built until they are expired.
> %% Config is of the form:
> %% {num-builds, per-timespan-in-milliseconds}
> %% Default is 1 build per hour.
> {anti\_entropy\_build\_limit, {1, 3600000}},
>
> %% Determine how often hash trees are expired after being
> built.
> %% Periodically expiring a hash tree ensures the on-disk hash
> tree
> %% data stays consistent with the actual k/v backend data. It
> also
> %% helps Riak identify silent disk failures and bit rot.
> However,
> %% expiration is not needed for normal AAE operation and
> should be
> %% infrequent for performance reasons. The time is specified in
> %% milliseconds. The default is 1 week.
> {anti\_entropy\_expire, 604800000},
>
> %% Limit how many AAE exchanges/builds can happen concurrently.
> {anti\_entropy\_concurrency, 2},
>
> %% The tick determines how often the AAE manager looks for work
> %% to do (building/expiring trees, triggering exchanges, etc).
> %% The default is every 15 seconds. Lowering this value will
> %% speedup the rate that all replicas are synced across the
> cluster.
> %% Increasing the value is not recommended.
> {anti\_entropy\_tick, 15000},
>
> %% The directory where AAE hash trees are stored.
> {anti\_entropy\_data\_dir, "/var/lib/riak/anti\_entropy"},
>
> %% The LevelDB options used by AAE to generate the
> LevelDB-backed
> %% on-disk hashtrees.
> {anti\_entropy\_leveldb\_opts, [{write\_buffer\_size, 4194304},
> {max\_open\_files, 20}]},
>
> I'll update the bloom filters value and see what happens...
>
> It's thursday again, and the regeneration process has started again. Since
> I've updated to 1.4.6, I have another thing different. The get/put values
> for each cluster node now have a "random" behaviour. Take a look at the
> next screenshot
>
> https://cloudup.com/cgbu9VNhSo1
>
> Best regards
>
>
> On 31 December 2013 21:16, Charlie Voiselle  wrote:
>
>> Edgar:
>>
>> Could you attach the AAE section of your app.config? I’d like to look
>> into this issue further for you. Something I think you might be running
>> into is https://github.com/basho/riak\_core/pull/483.
>>
>> The issue of concern is that the LevelDB bloom filter is not enabled
>> properly for the instance into which the AAE data is stored. You can
>> mitigate this particular issue by adding \*{use\_bloomfilter, true}\* as
>> shown below:
>>
>> %% The LevelDB options used by AAE to generate the LevelDB-backed
>>
>> %% on-disk hashtrees.
>> {anti\_entropy\_leveldb\_opts, [{write\_buffer\_size, 4194304},
>> {max\_open\_files, 20}]},
>>
>>
>> Becomes:
>>
>>
>>
>> %% The LevelDB options used by AAE to generate the LevelDB-backed
>> %% on-disk hashtrees.
>>
>>
>> {anti\_entropy\_leveldb\_opts, [{write\_buffer\_size, 4194304},
>> {use\_bloomfilter, true},
>>
>> {max\_open\_files, 20}]},
>>
>>
>> This might not solve your specific problem, but it will certainly improve
>> your AAE performance.
>>
>> Thanks,
>> Charlie Voiselle
>>
>> On Dec 31, 2013, at 12:04 PM, Edgar Veiga  wrote:
>>
>> Hey guys!
>>
>> Nothing on this one?
>>
>> Btw: Happy new year :)
>>
>>
>> On 27 December 2013 22:35, Edgar Veiga  wrote:
>>
>>> This is a du -hs \* of the riak folder:
>>>
>>> 44G anti\_entropy
>>> 1.1M kv\_vnode
>>> 252G leveldb
>>> 124K ring
>>>
>>> It's a 6 machine cluster, so ~1512G of levelDB.
>>>
>>> Thanks for the tip, I'll upgrade in a near future!
>>>
>>> Best regards
>>>
>>>
>>> On 27 December 2013 21:41, Matthew Von-Maszewski wrote:
>>>
>>>> I have a query out to the developer that can better respond to your
>>>> follow-up questions. It might be Monday before we get a reply due to the
>>>> holidays.
>>>>
>>>> Do you happen to know how much data is in the leveldb dataset and/or
>>>> one vnode? Not sure it will change the response, but might be nice to have
>>>> that info available.
>>>>
>>>> Matthew
>>>>
>>>> P.S. Unrelated to your question: Riak 1.4.4 is available for
>>>> download. It has a couple of nice bug fixes for leveldb.
>>>>
>>>>
>>>> On Dec 27, 2013, at 2:08 PM, Edgar Veiga  wrote:
>>>>
>>>> Ok, thanks for confirming!
>>>>
>>>> Is it normal, that this action affects the overall state of the
>>>> cluster? On the 26th It started the regeneration and the the response times
>>>> of the cluster raised to never seen values. It was a day of heavy traffic
>>>> but everything was going quite ok until it started the regeneration
>>>> process..
>>>>
>>>> Have you got any advices about changing those app.config values? My
>>>> cluster is running smoothly for the past 6 months and I don't want to start
>>>> all over again :)
>>>>
>>>> Best Regards
>>>>
>>>>
>>>> On 27 December 2013 18:56, Matthew Von-Maszewski wrote:
>>>>
>>>>> Yes. Confirmed.
>>>>>
>>>>> There are options available in app.config to control how often this
>>>>> occurs and how many vnodes rehash at once: defaults are every 7 days and
>>>>> two vnodes per server at a time.
>>>>>
>>>>> Matthew Von-Maszewski
>>>>>
>>>>>
>>>>> On Dec 27, 2013, at 13:50, Edgar Veiga  wrote:
>>>>>
>>>>> Hi!
>>>>>
>>>>> I've been trying to find what may be the cause of this.
>>>>>
>>>>> Every once in a week, all the nodes in my riak cluster start to do
>>>>> some kind of operation that lasts at least for two days.
>>>>>
>>>>> You can watch a sample of my munin logs regarding the last week in
>>>>> here:
>>>>>
>>>>> https://cloudup.com/imWiBwaC6fm
>>>>> Take a look at the days 19 and 20, and now it has started again on the
>>>>> 26...
>>>>>
>>>>> I'm suspecting that this may be caused by the aae hash trees being
>>>>> regenerated, as you say in your documentation:
>>>>> For added protection, Riak periodically (default: once a week) clears
>>>>> and regenerates all hash trees from the on-disk K/V data.
>>>>> Can you confirm me that this may be the root of the "problem" and if
>>>>> it's normal for the action to last for two days?
>>>>>
>>>>> I'm using riak 1.4.2 on 6 machines, with centOS. The backend is
>>>>> levelDB.
>>>>>
>>>>> Best Regards,
>>>>> Edgar Veiga
>>>>>
>>>>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>>>>> riak-users mailing list
>>>>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>>>>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>>>>
>>>>>
>>>>
>>>>
>>>
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>
>>
>>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

