---
title: "Decipher Solr error messages"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2017-06-28T06:12:58-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg18299"
author_name: "Mark Richard Thomas"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2017-06-28T06:12:58-07:00
---


Hello

I'm seeing a number of Solr related issues in my error.log:

2017-06-28 06:02:58.520 [error] <0.2094.0>@yz\_doc:extract\_fields:165 An 
exception occurred extracting fields from value with reason 
{case\_clause,<<200,162,171,163,243,217,229,228,195,79,125,154,98,147,163,118,199,52,170,154,85,31,29,208>>}.
 Value: 
<<200,162,171,163,243,217,229,228,195,79,125,154,98,147,163,118,199,52,170,154,85,31,29,208>>
2017-06-28 06:02:58.520 [error] <0.2094.0>@yz\_solrq\_helper:single\_op\_batch:342 
Updating a single Solr operation failed for index <<"disqual">> with bad 
request.

2017-06-28 06:03:34.191 [error] <0.2103.0>@yz\_doc:extract\_fields:165 An 
exception occurred extracting fields from value with reason invalid\_utf8. 
Value: <<"{ \"company\"...........

I think these fall under 2 categories: an issue with the 'disqual' index and 
'invalid\_utf8'.

Any ideas on identifying where the issues occur?

Thanks

Mark
Equifax Limited is registered in England with Registered No. 2425920. 
Registered Office: Capital House, 25 Chapel Street, London NW1 5DS. Equifax 
Limited is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
Equifax Touchstone Limited is registered in Scotland with Registered No. 
SC113401. Registered Office: Exchange Tower,19 Canning Street, Edinburgh, EH3 
8EH.
Equifax Commercial Services Limited is registered in the Republic of Ireland 
with Registered No. 215393. Registered Office: IDA Business & Technology Park, 
Rosslare Road, Drinagh, Wexford.

This message contains information from Equifax which may be confidential and 
privileged. If you are not an intended recipient, please refrain from any 
disclosure, copying, distribution or use of this information and note that such 
actions are prohibited. If you have received this transmission in error, please 
notify by e-mail postmas...@equifax.com.
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

