---
title: "Re: Pre-commit hook debug"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-12-01T11:22:12-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16838"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16837"
author_name: "Jon Meredith"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-12-01T11:22:12-08:00
---


Hi Geoff,

Looks like the WM endpoint isn't handling that crash well.

As for your precommit hook, the hook runs inside the server context so
you'll need to use the riak\_object module instead. riakc\_obj is a cut-down
version for use in the Erlang client.

Jon

On Tue, Dec 1, 2015 at 11:53 AM Geoff Simonds 
wrote:

> Good afternoon,
>
> I am writing to ask for some help regarding a pre-commit hook in Riak
> 2.1.1. I am locally running a 5 node Riak dev cluster (
> https://github.com/xing/riak-dev-cluster) on a Mac and am having trouble
> with a pre-commit hook. I have added the "add\_paths" to my advanced.config:
> [
> Riak KV config
> {riak\_kv,
> [
> %% Paths to custom erlang modules.
> {add\_paths, ["/tmp/ls/custom\_modules"]}
> ]}
> ].
>
> and then copied the compiled beam to this directory. I then issued a curl
> PUT to add the pre-commit to the bucket props:
>
> curl -XPUT -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d
> '{"props":{"precommit":[{"mod":"rr\_pre\_commit","fun":"set\_process\_datetime\_index"}]}}'
> http://127.0.0.1:11098/buckets/LS\~News/props
>
> and am able to confirm it worked when I do a GET on the bucket
> properties. The bucket already had a single key stored in it and when I do
> another PUT on that object (hoping to get the pre-commit to fire), I get
> the following error:
>
> {error,badarg,
> [{erlang,iolist\_to\_binary,
> [{hook\_crashed,
> {rr\_pre\_commit,set\_process\_datetime\_index,error,
> function\_clause}}],
> []},
> {wrq,append\_to\_response\_body,2,[{file,"src/wrq.erl"},{line,215}]},
> {riak\_kv\_wm\_object,handle\_common\_error,3,
> [{file,"src/riak\_kv\_wm\_object.erl"},{line,1178}]},
> {webmachine\_resource,resource\_call,3,
> [{file,"src/webmachine\_resource.erl"},{line,186}]},
> {webmachine\_resource,do,3,
> [{file,"src/webmachine\_resource.erl"},{line,142}]},
> {webmachine\_decision\_core,resource\_call,1,
> [{file,"src/webmachine\_decision\_core.erl"},{line,48}]},
> {webmachine\_decision\_core,accept\_helper,1,
> [{file,"src/webmachine\_decision\_core.erl"},{line,616}]},
> {webmachine\_decision\_core,decision,1,
> [{file,"src/webmachine\_decision\_core.erl"},{line,521}]}]}}
>
>
> I am able to run the pre-commit function when I attach to the Riak shell and 
> add the paths manually (code:add\_patha) but not when it triggers via a PUT. 
> Also, in my pre-commit hook module/function I am using the riak erlang client 
> to access the object metadata. Is this module compiled into Riak or do I 
> also need to add a path for this?
>
>
> The pre-commit module/function is below:
>
>
> set\_process\_datetime\_index(Obj) ->
> case is\_deleted(Obj) of
> true ->
> Obj;
> \_ ->
> MD = riakc\_obj:get\_update\_metadata(Obj),
> case riakc\_obj:get\_user\_metadata\_entry(MD, 
> <<"process\_messagedate">>) of
> %% if user "process messagedate" metadata is not found
> notfound ->
> %% add it
> MD2 = 
> riakc\_obj:set\_user\_metadata\_entry(MD,{<<"process\_messagedate">>,format\_date\_index(calendar:local\_time())}),
> %% and modify the message\_date 2i index
> MD3 = riakc\_obj:set\_secondary\_index(MD2,{{binary\_index, 
> <<"messagedate">>}, [format\_date\_index(calendar:local\_time())]}),
> riakc\_obj:update\_metadata(Obj,MD3);
> \_ ->
> %% otherwise, don't do anything as we have already stored the 
> process time
> Obj
> end
>
> end.
>
> is\_deleted(Obj)->
> case dict:find(<<"X-Riak-Deleted">>,riakc\_obj:get\_metadata(Obj)) of
> {ok,\_} ->
> true;
> \_ ->
> false
> end.
>
>
> Any help or advice is appreciated.
>
>
> Geoff
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

