---
title: "Re: Installing protobuf 2.5.0 for Riak Python 2.0"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-08-06T07:27:30-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11914"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg11903"
author_name: "Sean Cribbs"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-08-06T07:27:30-07:00
---


Hi Matt,

I've submitted a PR to fix the instructions.
https://github.com/basho/basho\_docs/pull/534


On Mon, Aug 5, 2013 at 8:26 PM, Sean Cribbs  wrote:

> Yes, that page went out before I had a chance to review it. I'll try to
> get the installation instructions patched this week.
>
>
> On Mon, Aug 5, 2013 at 6:10 PM, Matt Black wrote:
>
>> Ah okay, thanks Sean.
>>
>> The reason I went down that road is that the docs say you need v2.5:
>>
>> http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/dev/taste-of-riak/python/
>>
>>
>>
>> On 31 July 2013 23:05, Sean Cribbs  wrote:
>>
>>> Matt,
>>>
>>> For compatibility reasons, we use 2.4.1, which is pinned in the
>>> requirements of the riak\_pb package. We intend to move to 2.5 for later
>>> releases.
>>>
>>>
>>> On Tue, Jul 30, 2013 at 11:02 PM, Matt Black 
>>> wrote:
>>>
>>>> Hello list,
>>>>
>>>> I've been eagerly awaiting the latest update to the python bindings, so
>>>> it was with great enthusiasm that I started on it this morning!
>>>>
>>>> However, I'm unable to install the latest v2.5 of protobuf. Has anyone
>>>> else had problems? Presumably it works for others on different setups.
>>>> (Sean?)
>>>>
>>>> (test)vagrant@boomerang:/tmp/protobuf-2.5.0/python > python setup.py
>>>> build
>>>> running build
>>>> running build\_py
>>>> Generating google/protobuf/unittest\_pb2.py...
>>>> google/protobuf/unittest\_import.proto:53:8: Expected a string naming
>>>> the file to import.
>>>> google/protobuf/unittest.proto: Import
>>>> "google/protobuf/unittest\_import.proto" was not found or had errors.
>>>> google/protobuf/unittest.proto:97:12:
>>>> "protobuf\_unittest\_import.ImportMessage" is not defined.
>>>> google/protobuf/unittest.proto:101:12:
>>>> "protobuf\_unittest\_import.ImportEnum" is not defined.
>>>> google/protobuf/unittest.proto:107:12:
>>>> "protobuf\_unittest\_import.PublicImportMessage" is not defined.
>>>> google/protobuf/unittest.proto:135:12:
>>>> "protobuf\_unittest\_import.ImportMessage" is not defined.
>>>> google/protobuf/unittest.proto:139:12:
>>>> "protobuf\_unittest\_import.ImportEnum" is not defined.
>>>> google/protobuf/unittest.proto:165:12:
>>>> "protobuf\_unittest\_import.ImportEnum" is not defined.
>>>> google/protobuf/unittest.proto:216:12:
>>>> "protobuf\_unittest\_import.ImportMessage" is not defined.
>>>> google/protobuf/unittest.proto:221:12:
>>>> "protobuf\_unittest\_import.ImportEnum" is not defined.
>>>> google/protobuf/unittest.proto:227:12:
>>>> "protobuf\_unittest\_import.PublicImportMessage" is not defined.
>>>> google/protobuf/unittest.proto:256:12:
>>>> "protobuf\_unittest\_import.ImportMessage" is not defined.
>>>> google/protobuf/unittest.proto:261:12:
>>>> "protobuf\_unittest\_import.ImportEnum" is not defined.
>>>> google/protobuf/unittest.proto:291:12:
>>>> "protobuf\_unittest\_import.ImportEnum" is not defined.
>>>>
>>>> vagrant@boomerang:~ > uname -a
>>>> Linux boomerang 3.2.0-29-virtual #46-Ubuntu SMP Fri Jul 27 17:23:50 UTC
>>>> 2012 x86\_64 x86\_64 x86\_64 GNU/Linux
>>>>
>>>> vagrant@boomerang:~ > lsb\_release -a
>>>> No LSB modules are available.
>>>> Distributor ID: Ubuntu
>>>> Description: Ubuntu 12.04.2 LTS
>>>> Release: 12.04
>>>> Codename: precise
>>>>
>>>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>>>> riak-users mailing list
>>>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>>>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>>>
>>>>
>>>
>>>
>>> --
>>> Sean Cribbs 
>>> Software Engineer
>>> Basho Technologies, Inc.
>>> http://basho.com/
>>>
>>
>>
>
>
> --
> Sean Cribbs 
> Software Engineer
> Basho Technologies, Inc.
> http://basho.com/
>



-- 
Sean Cribbs 
Software Engineer
Basho Technologies, Inc.
http://basho.com/
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

