---
title: "[ANN] JavaScript Riak REPL"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-06-05T06:14:40-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11222"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg11214"
author_name: "Pedro Teixeira"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-06-05T06:14:40-07:00
---


Hi,

Just published a Node.js-based JavaScript REPL for talking to Riak:

https://github.com/CrowdProcess/riak-repl#readme

It's a fairly recent small project, but I think this is a missing tool if you 
use Riak.
Still some improvements to do, but it should be fully operational.

(riak-repl uses riak-pb (https://github.com/CrowdProcess/riak-pb) underneath, 
which uses protocol buffers to talk to Riak). 

Enjoy!

-- 
Pedro


On Tuesday, June 4, 2013 at 10:47 AM, Pedro Teixeira wrote:

> 
> Hi Mark,
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> CrowdProcess is a web-based browser-powered distributed computing platform.
> 
> We harvest computing power from the browsers of the viewers of our partner 
> websites and make them available to our users and clients so they can do all 
> kinds of awesome stuff: forest fire behavioral prediction, cancer therapy 
> research, genome sequencing, etc. On top of that we want to be an alternative 
> revenue source for websites by sharing our revenue in proportion to the 
> processing power they're visitors allow them to provide
> 
> Customer computational data can be very volumous and by using Riak we can 
> efficiently scale out our data store without incurring in service down time. 
> Given the nature of some of the computational tasks we handle, having the 
> high availability that Riak gives us at the data store layer is a big 
> advantage. Also, by tuning the Riak CAP controls, we can adjust the 
> consistency and performance trade-offs according to our application needs.
> 
> -- 
> Pedro
> 
> 
> On Tuesday, June 4, 2013 at 12:46 AM, Mark Phillips wrote:
> 
> > Hey Pedro, 
> > 
> > Thanks for passing this along. I just opened a PR [0] to add it to the Riak 
> > Docs (along with the code Troy Malhese just released [1]).
> > 
> > Which reminds me - if anyone else has code that should be on the community 
> > projects page, don't hesitate to add it. 
> > 
> > At the risk of taking this totally off-topic, can you talk a bit about how 
> > CrowdProcess is using the client/Riak? "We're turning the internet into a 
> > super computer" sounds pretty ambitious. I'm mostly curious how Riak plays 
> > into that. :) 
> > 
> > Mark 
> > 
> > 
> > [0] https://github.com/basho/basho\_docs/pull/418
> > [1] https://github.com/natural/zukai
> > 
> > 
> > On Mon, Jun 3, 2013 at 1:29 AM, Pedro Teixeira  > (mailto:pedro.teixe...@gmail.com)> wrote:
> > > 
> > > Riak-pb (https://github.com/CrowdProcess/riak-pb) is a Riak Node.js 
> > > client module that uses Protocol Buffers (instead of HTTP) to talk to 
> > > Riak. It has the following features:
> > > 
> > > Automatically reconnects if disconnected
> > > Can be configured with an array of nodes, load-balancing between them
> > > Uses connection pooling, using many connections in parallel to speed up 
> > > concurrent requests
> > > Automatically retries if client gets disconnected during request
> > > Provides a streaming interface for when Riak uses streaming replies
> > > 
> > > 
> > > Riak-pb is entirely written in JavaScript, using protobuf.js 
> > > (https://npmjs.org/package/protobuf.js) to encode and decode protocol 
> > > buffers.
> > > 
> > > 
> > > (Because it makes use of Streams2, Riak-pb is only compatible with 
> > > Node.js >= 0.10).
> > > 
> > > 
> > > Enjoy!
> > > 
> > > 
> > > -Pedro
> > > 
> > > 
> > > \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> > > riak-users mailing list
> > > riak-users@lists.basho.com (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
> > > http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> > > 
> > 
> 

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

