---
title: "Re: Sudden frequent node crashes"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-10-08T12:41:55-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16642"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16641"
author_name: "Russell Brown"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-10-08T12:41:55-07:00
---


Hi Allen,
Riak only supports erlang r16 at this time. Probably best to use the erlang 
that riak ships with, or build our basho OTP fork, instructions here: 
http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/ops/building/installing/erlang/#Installing-on-FreeBSD-Solaris

We’re working on erlang 17 and beyond support.

Also, can you confirm what install you did of riak (source? checkout of a tag 
on github?) Those line numbers in your crash don’t match up for me

Cheers

Russell

> On 8 Oct 2015, at 20:35, Allen Landsidel  wrote:
> 
> Oops sorry, forgot about that.
> 
> I'm running Erlang 17 from ports; erlang-runtime17-17.5.6.3
> 
> 
> 
> On 10/8/2015 15:28, Russell Brown wrote:
>> Hi Allen,
>> What version of erlang are you running, please?
>> 
>> Cheers
>> 
>> Russell
>> 
>>> On 8 Oct 2015, at 19:58, Allen Landsidel  wrote:
>>> 
>>> Background:
>>> Riak 2.1.1
>>> FreeBSD 9.1.
>>> Servers are all virtualized on VMWare ESX 5.5. Each node is given ~300G of 
>>> storage, 4G of RAM, and 2 core SMP.
>>> Storage is via FC SAN.
>>> Access to the cluster from clients is strictly over the HTTP interface and 
>>> is funneled through haproxy.
>>> The cluster was five nodes using leveldb with a ring size of 16.
>>> 
>>> The cluster is setup this way so that we could start small and add nodes as 
>>> needed, with a small memory footprint, rather than preallocating a ton of 
>>> memory and disk space that we may never use. The cluster has been running 
>>> fine for the past month.
>>> 
>>> Today the cluster has begun experiencing strange repeated failures. No 
>>> changes in any of the clients have been made, so the problem seems as 
>>> though it must be in the data coming in.
>>> 
>>> I started a fresh two-node cluster and shortly after data begins flowing 
>>> into the cluster, nodes begin crashing.
>>> 
>>> The first report in the crash log is below. I'm far from an expert at 
>>> understanding these errors, but "invalid\_unicode" seems telling.
>>> 
>>> If more from the crash log is needed, I can provide it. Once this first 
>>> error comes in, the node goes offline and errors just continue to roll in 
>>> to the log file, in what looks like an attempt to automatically restart the 
>>> node.
>>> 
>>> --------------------------------------------
>>> \*\* Generic server <0.2136.0> terminating
>>> \*\* Last message in was {vnodeid,10000}
>>> \*\* When Server state == {state,"/var/db/riak/kv\_vnode/0",0,<0.2135.0>,2}
>>> \*\* Reason for termination ==
>>> \*\* 
>>> {{badmatch,{error,{4,file\_io\_server,invalid\_unicode}}},[{riak\_kv\_vnode\_status\_mgr,handle\_call,3,[{file,"src/riak\_kv\_vnode\_status\_mgr.erl"},{line,178}]},{gen\_server,try\_handle\_call,4,[{file,"gen\_server.erl"},{line,607}]},{gen\_server,handle\_msg,5,[{file,"gen\_server.erl"},{line,639}]},{proc\_lib,init\_p\_do\_apply,3,[{file,"proc\_lib.erl"},{line,237}]}]}
>>> 2015-10-08 18:36:18 =CRASH REPORT====
>>> crasher:
>>> initial call: riak\_kv\_vnode\_status\_mgr:init/1
>>> pid: <0.2136.0>
>>> registered\_name: []
>>> exception exit: 
>>> {{{badmatch,{error,{4,file\_io\_server,invalid\_unicode}}},[{riak\_kv\_vnode\_status\_mgr,handle\_call,3,[{file,"src/riak\_kv\_vnode\_status\_mgr.erl"},{line,178}]},{gen\_server,try\_handle\_call,4,[{file,"gen\_server.erl"},{line,607}]},{gen\_server,handle\_msg,5,[{file,"gen\_server.erl"},{line,639}]},{proc\_lib,init\_p\_do\_apply,3,[{file,"proc\_lib.erl"},{line,237}]}]},[{gen\_server,terminate,7,[{file,"gen\_server.erl"},{line,804}]},{proc\_lib,init\_p\_do\_apply,3,[{file,"proc\_lib.erl"},{line,237}]}]}
>>> ancestors: [<0.2135.0>,riak\_core\_vnode\_sup,riak\_core\_sup,<0.169.0>]
>>> messages: []
>>> links: [<0.2135.0>]
>>> dictionary: []
>>> trap\_exit: false
>>> status: running
>>> heap\_size: 610
>>> stack\_size: 27
>>> reductions: 569
>>> neighbours:
>>> --------------------------------------------
>>> 
>>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>>> riak-users mailing list
>>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>> 


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

