---
title: "Re: CorrugatedIron needs a new home"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-05-06T18:40:23-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14181"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14180"
author_name: "OJ Reeves"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-05-06T18:40:23-07:00
---


Jeremiah has summed it up rather nicely. I'd just like to back it up by
saying that I am also happy to help with transition to a new home. While CI
isn't a priority for me any more, I'd still like to see it live on.

Cheers
OJ


On Wed, May 7, 2014 at 6:05 AM, Jeremiah Peschka  wrote:

> At this point it's been 8 months since the last full release of
> CorrugatedIron[1]. Development has continued since then, but the pace has
> slowed down considerably.
>
> ## The Life Of A Consultant
>
> As a consultant, you're called upon to be a deep specialist in one
> technology.
>
> OJ Reeves[2] and I started this project because we were both interested in
> becoming specialists in Riak. We had similar experience. We both worked on
> Microsoft platforms - OJ with C# and me with SQL Server.
>
> As time passed, though, we both focused more and more on technologies that
> weren't Riak. OJ veered off into security and I continued to dive deeper
> into the world of SQL Server. Over time, our interests were pulled in other
> directions.
>
> It's difficult to find the time to work on an extracurricular project even
> when everyone is interested in supporting the project. It's harder when you
> both know that the other person's passions lie elsewhere.
>
> ## The State of the Game
>
> As of today, we've implemented 80% of the features that are necessary to
> support Riak 2.0 on the `develop` branch of CorrugatedIron. The project is
> in relatively rough shape and neither one of us have committed code in
> several months.
>
> ## Looking for Contributors
>
> We couldn't have foreseen this when we started, or even even 6 months ago,
> but both OJ and I are no longer able to actively maintain CorrugatedIron.
>
> We're looking for contributors to help us with the maintenance and
> development of CorrugatedIron. In short: \*\*CorrugatedIron needs a new
> home\*\*.
>
> Working on CorrugatedIron has been a lot of fun, but priorities have
> changed and it's time to move on and leave full time development to folks
> who have the time and energy to work on it.
>
> If you're interested in picking on where we left off, email me at <
> jeremiah.pesc...@gmail.com> and let me know that you're interested. I'm
> more than happy to help make this transition happen smoothly and painlessly.
>
> [1]: http://github.com/DistributedNonsense/CorrugatedIron
> [2]: http://buffered.io/
>
> ---
> Jeremiah Peschka - Managing Director, Brent Ozar Unlimited
> MCSE: Data Platform, MVP
> Cloudera Certified Developer for Apache Hadoop
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>


-- 

OJ Reeves | @TheColonial  | +61 431 952
586 | http://buffered.io/
PGP 4096R/1FAA5749 | 4EAE 350E 13FE 7584 FFC8 B97D 49EE E751 1FAA 5749
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

