---
title: "Re: Setting up my Riak architecture"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-07-24T06:37:51-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11717"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg11716"
author_name: "Guido Medina"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-07-24T06:37:51-07:00
---


Riak is a multi-master database, your client will create a connection 
pool to all nodes in the cluster.
For production it is recommended at least 5 nodes in the cluster, to get 
started, I guess you should first read some documentation, here is some 
that can help you:


http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/

Start with the section /"Riak for Operators"/ and once you are 
comfortable, jump to /"Riak for Developers"/


HTH,

Guido.

On 24/07/13 13:51, prog112 wrote:

Hello.
I'm currently developing my database relationships with my other server
applications and I'm having a hard time figuring out how to approach it.
Here's what I'm wondering about:

1) How does accessing Riak really work? Currently I'm having one machine
with all my tools (Riak, master server, dynamic game server instnaces) on
it. My database is set up on 127.0.0.1 in /etc/riak/app.config does it mean
it can only be accessed from localhost?
2) Say later on I'm going to have more seperate machines to run my game
server nodes. My game servers do require to get some info about players from
the database. Should I connect to database directly from those game servers
instances or should I do it via master server? Won't master server get too
much traffic then though? How can I connect to database from my game servers
anyway if they're at separate machines?

What do you guys think? All feedback will be very appreciated.



--
View this message in context: 
http://riak-users.197444.n3.nabble.com/Setting-up-my-Riak-architecture-tp4028520.html
Sent from the Riak Users mailing list archive at Nabble.com.

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

