---
title: "Re: Tuning a Riak cluster."
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-02-22T14:35:53-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10217"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg10213"
author_name: "Richard Shaw"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-02-22T14:35:53-08:00
---


Hi Kevin,

Always good practise to reply to the mailing list so others can benefit
from the content

basho bench is the best place to start, If you have a working cluster or
even a working single node, follow the benchmarking guide[0]

Please let me see some of the specific errors you're having and we can help
resolve them.

Outside of basho bench, I recommend benchmarking the raw performance of
your VM, you can do this using a variety of tools like iostat, iperf or a
test suite like Phoronix test suite, a very comprehensive FOSS tool[1] look
at the `aio` test

I'd also recommend benchmarking each time you make a configuration change
to really understand how effective that change was

[0]http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/cookbooks/Benchmarking/
[1]http://www.phoronix-test-suite.com/

Kind Regards

Richard


On Fri, Feb 22, 2013 at 10:14 PM, Kevin Burton wrote:

> That was my next question. I have tried to get basho\_bench to work but so
> far have been unsuccessful. If you have a simple "hello world" sample
> config I would greatly appreciate it. I have tried a bunch of configs in
> the examples directory but get met with one error or another.
> Other than that I have just timed various client driver calls. Mostly
> random reads some writes.
>
> On Feb 22, 2013, at 3:48 PM, Richard Shaw  wrote:
>
> Hi Kevin,
>
> What kind of benchmarking have you done on your VMs and what did you use ?
>
> Kind Regards
>
> Richard
>
>
> On Fri, Feb 22, 2013 at 9:49 AM, Kevin Burton wrote:
>
>> Ok I suspected as much. This will give me more ammo when requesting more
>> resources. Thank you.
>> Now, back to the original question. Given that the physical hardware is
>> taken care of. What parameters are most important when tuning a cluster.
>> Again for arguments sake assume the same 4 node cluster with a read-write
>> ratio of about 75 percent.
>>
>> On Feb 21, 2013, at 8:26 PM, Alexander Sicular 
>> wrote:
>>
>> It can't be said enough times but the number one thing you can do to
>> ensure that you are getting true performance (not to mention redundancy) is
>> to use different physical hardware for each of your nodes. Under no
>> circumstances should you have more than one VM (one logical node in a Riak
>> cluster) on the same physical hardware. Also, use multiple
>> connections/threads/parallelism/whatever on client side and be sure to hit
>> all the nodes in the cluster haproxy roundrobin-esque when writing to Riak.
>> Everything else is in the noise.
>>
>> -Alexander Sicular
>>
>> @siculars
>>
>> On Feb 21, 2013, at 9:04 PM, Kevin Burton 
>> wrote:
>>
>>
>> There each has about 20-30GB of disk space. They each are a VM so I am
>> not sure how to specify the CPU. They all seem to be 64 bit Intel
>> processors but I could tell you the clock speed. The network is 1Gb
>> Ethernet.\*\*\*\*
>>
>> \*From:\* Sean Carey [mailto:ca...@basho.com]
>> \*Sent:\* Thursday, February 21, 2013 7:59 PM
>> \*To:\* Kevin Burton
>> \*Cc:\* riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> \*Subject:\* Re: Tuning a Riak cluster.\*\*\*\*
>> \*\* \*\*
>> Kevin,\*\*\*\*
>> Disk and CPU, and Network?\*\*\*\*
>> \*\* \*\*
>>
>>
>> Sean Carey
>> @densone\*\*\*\*
>>
>> On Thursday, February 21, 2013 at 20:31, Kevin Burton wrote:\*\*\*\*
>>
>> \*\*\*\*
>> I have a cluster of 4 machines (4 Linux VM machines each allocated about
>> 1 Gb of memory – yea I know it isn’t a lot). I would like to get some
>> pointers on getting the fastest query time possible given these meager
>> resources. Thank you.\*\*\*\*
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\*\*\*\*
>> riak-users mailing list\*\*\*\*
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com\*\*\*\*
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com\*\*\*\*
>>
>> \*\* \*\*
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>
>>
>>
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>
>>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

