---
title: "Re: reversing node removal?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-04-14T10:14:30-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14074"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14073"
author_name: "Allen Landsidel"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-04-14T10:14:30-07:00
---



Luke,

As I said in the private email, I ended up doing just that. The cluster 
is virtualized (I am aware of the potential performance issues) so I 
just shut it all down, grew the drive allocated to riak's data dir, and 
brought them back up. The extra space (or something?) caused them to 
start going heavily into swap, killing performance, so I shut down again 
and gave them more memory.


For now though the cluster remains off. While it was on, our SAN 
performance was getting murdered. I'm having problems with one of the 
arrays and I'm dealing with that right now; when it's fixed, I can go 
back to figuring out how to fix the issue with the riak cluster. I 
don't know right now if it was riak or the array issues that killed the 
SAN performance.


I do have a few more questions though.

1. Is the cluster leave supposed to check that the remaining nodes in 
the cluster have enough space to move all the data to? If not, that's 
something that would be nice to have in a future version.


2. Can I tell it through the config files which filesystem(s) to check 
for available space? Being FreeBSD, I have the normal mounts (/, /usr, 
/var, /tmp) as well as one dedicated to riak data. If it's just 
checking the space on the server as a whole, it will get a false sense 
of how much space is available for it.


On 4/14/2014 12:28, Luke Bakken wrote:

Hi Allen,

There's no way to abort a cluster operation that is in progress. In
addition, data won't transfer to the node you added until the previous
cluster transition completes.

Is it possible to add disk space to your three running nodes?
--
Luke Bakken
CSE
lbak...@basho.com


On Fri, Apr 11, 2014 at 4:48 AM, Allen Landsidel
 wrote:

I have a 5-node cluster (riak 1.4.0, freebsd9) that is being used in
production and miscalculated the disk space being used by the cluster as a
whole. Yesterday I told the cluster to remove two nodes, leaving just
three, but I need four active to cover the usage.

One node left successfully before I became aware of the problem, and disk
filled up completely on the other three. I added the one that left back to
the cluster, but data is not being moved to it.

Is there any way to 'abort' the cluster leave issued to the node that is
still trying to leave, or some other way to straighten this out without
losing (much) data?

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

