---
title: "Re: Riak as backend for Titian graph DB"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-11-15T23:50:22-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12998"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12997"
author_name: "Russell Brown"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-11-15T23:50:22-08:00
---


To add what Eric said: I don’t know Titan, but the phrase “atomic edge 
operations” suggests they require properties from the datastore that Riak’s 
eventually consistent datatypes can’t satisfy.

All that said, we have been asked by a customer to look at integration with 
Titan, and when time permits, we will.

Cheers

Russell

On 16 Nov 2013, at 06:58, Eric Redmond  wrote:

> The new sets aren't sorted, they're just proper sets.
> 
> Riak isn't fundamentally changing from a key value store, the values of the 
> new data types are just convergent. So you still retrieve the whole value at 
> a time, no partial values (eg. subsets).
> 
> Eric
> 
> 
> On Nov 15, 2013, at 6:39 PM, bernie  wrote:
> 
>> Hi,
>> 
>> there was a thread on the Google's Titan group about using Riak with Titan. 
>> Matthias (one of the lead developers) initial response was that Riak's data 
>> model was difficult to work with for their use case.
>> When I asked him about the new 2.0 data types he answered the following
>> 
>> "Sets seem close to what we need. At least that will allow us to do atomic 
>> edge operations. Is it possible to specify a sort order on those sets and 
>> retrieve subsets or can I only retrieve the set as a whole?"
>> 
>> Since I could not find the information, I am hoping somebody here will be 
>> able to help out.
>> 
>> Thanks in advance,
>> Bernie
>> 
>> https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/aureliusgraphs/sP0uS6A47IA
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> 
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com



signature.asc
Description: Message signed with OpenPGP using GPGMail
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

