---
title: "Re: How to deal with 1 second indexing requirement in Riak Search 2.0"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-09-05T03:17:16-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16506"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16505"
author_name: "Hao"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-09-05T03:17:16-07:00
---


I actually start to wonder even using key/value (email\_address as the 
key) to query the record(during registration), will it be still 
possibility that the two request is too close(client fired 2 sequential 
requests) and the second will still find no registration of the user 
because the 1st request is not quick enough to finish saving. After all, 
Riak saving a record is eventual consistency right? ( or is key save 
fast enough to ignore?)



Thanks,

-Hao

On 09/05/2015 04:28 AM, Dmitri Zagidulin wrote:

I second what Luke said.

Definitely use Key/Value operations for this case (the users-by-email 
bucket), which is a One-to-One relationship. Don't use Search or 
Secondary Indexes.


On Fri, Sep 4, 2015 at 9:18 AM, Luke Bakken > wrote:


 Use another bucket, keyed by email, with the users generated ID as
 the value:

 Bucket/key: buckets/users-by-email/bob.bar...@gmail.com
 
 Value: Riak generated ID

 There are, I am sure, race conditions and eventual consistency issues
 to keep in mind, but it's good to remember that you can use key/value
 operations in this manner.

 --
 Luke Bakken
 Engineer
 lbak...@basho.com 

 On Fri, Sep 4, 2015 at 3:04 AM, Hao > wrote:
 > Take registration for example, within 1 second, how could I find
 out the
 > same user already registered in the database? Suppose the email
 address is
 > the ID but is not the key. KEY is generated guid.
 >
 > (I have been suggested to use the email address as the key. But
 it's a big
 > change. I just want to make sure that there is really no other way)
 >
 > Thanks,
 >
 > --
 > Hao

 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
 riak-users mailing list
 riak-users@lists.basho.com 
 http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com




--
Hao

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

