---
title: "Re: Changing the filesystem"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-08-14T00:02:30-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg12018"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg12006"
author_name: "dilip kumar"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-08-14T00:02:30-07:00
---


Hi John White,

Please find the riak console output:


# riak console


Node 'riak@192.168.1.105' not responding to pings.
config is OK
Exec: /usr/lib64/riak/erts-5.9.1/bin/erlexec -boot 
/usr/lib64/riak/releases/1.4.1/riak              -config /etc/riak/app.config   
          -pa /usr/lib64/riak/lib/basho-patches             -args\_file 
/etc/riak/vm.args -- console
Root: /usr/lib64/riak
Erlang R15B01 (erts-5.9.1) [source] [64-bit] [smp:24:24] [async-threads:64] 
[kernel-poll:true]

Eshell V5.9.1  (abort with ^G)
(riak@192.168.1.105)1> /usr/lib64/riak/lib/os\_mon-2.2.9/priv/bin/memsup: Erlang 
has closed.
                                                                                
            Erlang has closed


Regards,
Dilip


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
 From: John White 
To: dilip kumar ; Hector Castro  
Cc: "riak-users@lists.basho.com"  
Sent: Tuesday, 13 August 2013 10:42 PM
Subject: Re: Changing the filesystem
 


Dilip,

Can you restart Riak with a riak stop then riak start?  If this fails a riak 
ping, can you please attach a riak console output.


-- 
John White

On August 13, 2013 at 7:25:51 PM, dilip kumar (dilip\_nuta...@yahoo.co.in) wrote:
Hi Hector,
>
>
>This is what happens, after changing the directories in riak\_kv section on 
>/etc/riak/app.config:
>
>
># riak restart
>
>  ok
># stanchion restart
>  ok
># riak-cs start
>   riak-cs failed to start within 15 seconds,
>
>   see the output of 'riak-cs console' for more information.
>   If you want to wait longer, set the environment variable
>   WAIT\_FOR\_ERLANG to the number of seconds to wait.
># riak ping
>
>    Node 'riak@machine105' not responding to pings.
>
>
>Below is the output of `riak-cs console`
>
>
>Eshell V5.9.1  (abort with ^G)
>(riak-cs@machine105)1> 12:24:36.456 [error] CRASH REPORT Process <0.130.0> 
>with 0 neighbours exited with reason: {tcp,econnrefused} in 
>gen\_server:init\_it/6 line 320
>/usr/lib64/riak-cs/lib/os\_mon-2.2.9/priv/bin/memsup: Erlang has closed.
>                                                                        Erlang 
>has closed
>                                                                               
>          {"Kernel pid 
>terminated",application\_controller,"{application\_start\_failure,riak\_cs,{shutdown,{riak\_cs\_app,start,[normal,[]]}}}"}
>Kernel pid terminated (application\_controller) 
>({application\_start\_failure,riak\_cs,{shutdown,{riak\_cs\_app,start,[normal,[]]}}})
>
>
>
>
>Regards,
>Dilip
>
>
>
>\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> From: Hector Castro 
>To: dilip kumar  
>Cc: "riak-users@lists.basho.com"  
>Sent: Tuesday, 13 August 2013 7:49 PM
>Subject: Re: Changing the filesystem
> 
>
>Hi Dilip,
>
>Are you making these changes to Riak's app.config?
>
>If the `riak-cs start` command isn't working, that's generally an
>indicator that Riak is not running. What happens when you execute
>`riak ping`?
>
>--
>Hector
>
>
>On Tue, Aug 13, 2013 at 9:20 AM, dilip kumar  wrote:
>> Hi,
>>
>> How do I change the filesystem where the RIAK CS buckets could run. Changing
>> the data\_root values in storage\_backend is not working as it is specified in
>> a FAQ
>> (http://docs.basho.com/riakcs/latest/cookbooks/faqs/riak-cs/#is-it-possible-to-specify-a-file-system-where-my-r).
>>
>> When I change the below specified data\_root values in Storage Backend, the
>> "stanchion start" and "riak-cs start" are not working.
>>
>>
>>
>> {add\_paths, ["/usr/lib64/riak-cs/lib/riak\_cs-1.3.1/ebin"]},
>> {storage\_backend, riak\_cs\_kv\_multi\_backend},
>> {multi\_backend\_prefix\_list, [{<<"0b:">>, be\_blocks}]},
>> {multi\_backend\_default, be\_default},
>> {multi\_backend, [
>>    {be\_default, riak\_kv\_eleveldb\_backend, [
>>        {max\_open\_files, 50},
>>        {data\_root, "/var/lib/riak/leveldb"}
>>    ]},
>>    {be\_blocks, riak\_kv\_bitcask\_backend, [
>>        {data\_root, "/var/lib/riak/bitcask"}
>>    ]}
>>
 ]},
>>
>> Regards,
>> Dilip
>>
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>
>
>
>\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

