---
title: "Re: Questions about Ruby under Riak"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-02-20T07:39:07-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13678"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13677"
author_name: "Luke Bakken"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-02-20T07:39:07-08:00
---


Hi Yehang -

Ruby comes with many standard libraries ("gems"), but the library for
connecting to a Riak cluster is not one of them. That's what the "gem
install riak-client" did - fetched and installed the library that
provides the ability to connect to and interact with a Riak cluster.

More info here: http://guides.rubygems.org/

--
Luke Bakken
CSE
lbak...@basho.com


On Thu, Feb 20, 2014 at 7:29 AM, 韩业航  wrote:
> thank you very much, it works! can you tell me the reason for this?
>
>
> On Thu, Feb 20, 2014 at 10:23 AM, Luke Bakken  wrote:
>>
>> Hello Yehang,
>>
>> Exit IRB and run this command:
>>
>> gem install riak-client
>>
>> When you re-run IRB "require riak" should work.
>> --
>> Luke Bakken
>> CSE
>> lbak...@basho.com
>>
>>
>> On Thu, Feb 20, 2014 at 7:19 AM, 韩业航  wrote:
>> > Dear all,
>> > I have install Riak under ubuntu 12.04 and set up a local Riak
>> > cluster
>> > which has five nodes. I want use ruby to populate a script.
>> > i install all the requirements of ruby and type IRB in the terminal,it
>> > works.but when i type require 'riak'. I got the following result:
>> >
>> > LoadError: cannot load such file -- riak
>> > from
>> >
>> > /home/yehang/.rvm/rubies/ruby-2.1.0/lib/ruby/site\_ruby/2.1.0/rubygems/core\_ext/kernel\_require.rb:55:in
>> > `require'
>> > from
>> >
>> > /home/yehang/.rvm/rubies/ruby-2.1.0/lib/ruby/site\_ruby/2.1.0/rubygems/core\_ext/kernel\_require.rb:55:in
>> > `require'
>> > from (irb):3
>> > from /home/yehang/.rvm/rubies/ruby-2.1.0/bin/irb:11:in `'
>> > Can anyone give some advice? I am a beginner. Thanks in advance!
>> >
>> > sincerely
>> > yehang
>> >
>> > \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> > riak-users mailing list
>> > riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> > http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>> >
>
>

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

