---
title: "Re: Error creating bucket with LevelDB bucket-type"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2016-12-15T08:36:06-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg17813"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg17812"
author_name: "Felipe Esteves"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2016-12-15T08:36:06-08:00
---


Hi, Luke,

It worked! Thanks a lot for the help and the feedback!

Felipe Esteves

Tecnologia

felipe.este...@b2wdigital.com 

Tel.: (21) 3504-7162 ramal 57162

Skype: felipe2esteves

2016-12-15 14:19 GMT-02:00 Luke Bakken :

> What is the output of this command:
>
> curl 127.0.1.1:8098/types/ldb/buckets?buckets=true
>
> I see that our docs do \*not\* give an example of listing buckets in a
> bucket type:
>
> http://docs.basho.com/riak/kv/2.2.0/developing/api/http/list-buckets/
>
> I have opened an issue here to improve the documentation:
> https://github.com/basho/basho\_docs/issues/2337
>
> On Thu, Dec 15, 2016 at 8:13 AM, Felipe Esteves
>  wrote:
> > Hi, Luke,
> >
> > The bucket\_type with leveldb is called ldb. Buckets "teste and "books"
> > already existed.
> >
> > Python3:
> >>>> myClient = riak.RiakClient(http\_port=8098, protocol='http',
> >>>> host='127.0.1.1')
> >>>> myBucket = myClient.bucket('foo', bucket\_type='ldb')
> >>>> keyb = myBucket.new('bar', data='foobar')
> >>>> keyb.store()
> > 
> >>>> myClient.get\_buckets()
> > [, ]
> >
> > HTTP:
> > curl 127.0.1.1:8098/buckets?buckets=true
> >
> > {"buckets":["teste","books"]}
> >
> > If I run the same procedure without specifying bucket\_type, it works
> well.
> > Couldn't figure out yet what's the problem.
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> Esta mensagem pode conter informações confidenciais e somente o indivíduo
> ou entidade a quem foi destinada pode utilizá-la. A transmissão incorreta
> da mensagem não acarreta a perda de sua confidencialidade. Caso esta
> mensagem tenha sido recebida por engano, solicitamos que o fato seja
> comunicado ao remetente e que a mensagem seja eliminada de seu sistema
> imediatamente. É vedado a qualquer pessoa que não seja o destinatário usar,
> revelar, distribuir ou copiar qualquer parte desta mensagem. Ambiente de
> comunicação sujeito a monitoramento.
>
> This message may include confidential information and only the intended
> addresses have the right to use it as is, or any part of it. A wrong
> transmission does not break its confidentiality. If you've received it
> because of a mistake or erroneous transmission, please notify the sender
> and delete it from your system immediately. This communication environment
> is controlled and monitored.
>
> B2W Digital
>
>

-- 

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

