---
title: "Re: using links or list of ids"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-03-07T01:43:15-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10347"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg10345"
author_name: "Mikhail Tyamin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-03-07T01:43:15-08:00
---


Hello, 

sorry that I did not clarify that but I am talking about using Riak's links and 
"Link walking".
I don't know how it implemented under the hood, but it's still special case of 
MapReduce request, which could be (in most cases) slower than fetch by keys?

We are using have's http client but the number of linked objects are limited 
from 1 to 10, so I hope it's not a problem...

P.S. Thank you for idea, Guido!


Message: 8
Date: Thu, 07 Mar 2013 09:17:02 +0000
From: Guido Medina 
To: riak-users 
Subject: Re: using links or list of ids
Message-ID: <51385b0e.1080...@temetra.com>
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=ISO-8859-1; format=flowed

This is only an idea:

You could mark your related objects with a 2i, when you need them 
retrieve the list of IDs from that 2i, fetch them concurrently into some 
local memory cache, and then navigate through your object graph by 
fetching them one by one from your local cache. It will be hard to find 
something that beats fetching the keys concurrently.

Guido.

On 07/03/13 09:06, Mikhail Tyamin wrote:
> Hello guys,
> 
> I have some question about using a links.
> In our data model each object A has a lot of links to other objects and we 
> are doing a lot of queries to fetch all objects that linked with A.
> Could it be a performance issue?
> Will it be more faster to store list of ids of related objects and fetch them 
> by ids?
> 
> Thank you.
> 
> 
> 
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

