---
title: "multi datacenter replication"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-05-10T09:46:42-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg11050"
author_name: "Patrick Christopher"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-05-10T09:46:42-07:00
---


Hi,
I’m working on an application that will be spread across many (150-200)
data centers. I had a great chat with Adron at the Seattle Riak Office
Hours and I think that Riak can provide the backbone of the solution.
Adron is a great help but I have come away with (or have come up with) two
more questions.

1. Does riak support specifying bucket level multi data center
replication? There is a single master data center that has all of the data,
and that central cluster replicates a single different bucket to each of
the remote data centers. Its a hub/spoke model where something at the hub
has a view of the full data set and something at a spoke end only has a
view of a single, unique bucket.

2. What would be the best way to setup a priority replication
strategy? There is always a link between the main dc and the spoke dcs,
but sometimes its a big fast link and we'd want to do a full replication
and sometimes its the equivalent of a 56k modem and we only want to
replicate time critical data. I think riak can handle this by using the
real-time sync for critical data and the full-sync for a full sync. Will
that work or is that asking for trouble running both styles?


And there was a small note in the
docs
that
says, " ...there are two primary modes of operation..." are there other,
secondary modes of replication or is this me over-parsing the docs?


Thank you,

Pat
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

