---
title: "Re: Wiping data directory break vnodes with read_block_error"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-03-06T02:11:23-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10328"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg10304"
author_name: "Jonas Lindmark"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-03-06T02:11:23-08:00
---


Hi, tested and while only wiping leveldb and ring helped ultimately I
modified my wipe script to

riak stop
rm -rf /var/lib/riak/ring/\*
rm -rf /var/lib/riak/leveldb/\*
riak start
riak-admin wait-for-service riak\_kv riak@127.0.0.1

Which worked like a charm.

Regards
Jonas


On 1 March 2013 20:46, Jonas Lindmark  wrote:

> Thanks for the advice, I'll be sure to try it out soon and report back.
>
> /jonas
> On Feb 28, 2013 7:01 PM, "Brian Shumate"  wrote:
>
>> Hello Jonas,
>>
>> I think the issue is that you actually wiped out too much by removing
>> the entire /var/lib/riak directory.
>>
>> Typically when resetting the data directories on a Riak node, you'd remove
>> the contents of only those backend directories which correspond to the
>> ones
>> defined in your app.config.
>>
>> For example, if you are using the Bitcask backend, you'd want to only do
>> something like:
>>
>> riak stop
>> sudo rm -rf /var/lib/riak/bitcask/\*
>> riak start
>>
>> This removes all Bitcask data but preserves the node's ring state.
>>
>> If you wanted to reset \_both\_ the Bitcask data and the ring state you'd
>> do:
>>
>> riak stop
>> sudo rm -rf /var/lib/riak/bitcask/\*
>> sudo rm -rf /var/lib/riak/ring/\*
>> riak start
>>
>> This would essentially reset the node back to a new state while retaining
>> any configuration changes you already specified in app.config or vm.args.
>>
>> I hope this helps.
>>
>> Regards,
>>
>> Brian Shumate
>>
>> On Feb 28, 2013, at 2:55 AM, Jonas Lindmark wrote:
>>
>> > Hi,
>> >
>> > I'm looking for a way to manually wipe the data off of a single-node
>> riak installation. I'm using riak (1.3.0 2013-02-19) Debian x86\_64 with the
>> riak\_kv\_eleveldb\_backend.
>> >
>> > What I'm currently doing is:
>> >
>> > • riak stop
>> > • rm -rf /var/lib/riak
>> > • mkdir riak
>> > • chown riak:riak riak
>> > • start riak
>> > Riak starts ok but a riak-admin vnode-status gives me:
>> >
>> > Backend: riak\_kv\_eleveldb\_backend
>> > Status:
>> > [{stats,<<" Compactions\nLevel Files
>> Size(MB) Time(sec) Read(MB)
>> Write(MB)\n--------------------------------------------------\n">>},
>> > {read\_block\_error,<<"0">>}]
>> >
>> > For each vnode.
>> >
>> > It seems to me that there is something more I need to wipe for this to
>> work but I can't find which files that would be.
>> >
>> > /Jonas
>> > \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> > riak-users mailing list
>> > riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> > http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>
>>


-- 
/Jonas
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

