---
title: "Re: Tag 2.0.0rc1 ??"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-07-15T12:52:40-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg14497"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg14496"
author_name: "Dave Martorana"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-07-15T12:52:40-07:00
---


Jared,

I'm pretty excited about this. I've been playing with 2.0 for a long time,
and am looking forward to finally getting off of our MySQL solution!

I didn't mean to rush you guys or anything. The last thing I should \*ever\*
intentionally point out in anyone else is pushing back a deadline to get in
that extra bit of polish. I'm the worst offender (and TBH, I prefer the
polish!). I just wasn't sure if I had missed something. Hope I didn't spoil
the surprise.

Thanks again for everything!

Dave


On Mon, Jul 14, 2014 at 4:40 PM, Jared Morrow  wrote:

> Dave,
>
> Yes, I tagged RC1 on Friday. The plan for us is to do some finishing work
> on docs, some last rounds of tests to be done, and then put it out to the
> public sometime soon. I've learned to not give firm dates at this point,
> but I'd personally be very disappointed if something wasn't in your hands
> by the end of this week. There will always be more work to do, but we plan
> to get it out to the public ASAP.
>
> To bring everyone in the loop, once we hit RC stage, we treat it like a
> true release candidate, keeping all changes out unless they fix a major
> bug. Usually the limits us to dataloss bugs, but recently we allowed for
> some performance changes to go into RC's as well. Sometimes it is hard to
> get an exact test of large-cluster performance when things are still
> changing before RC. With that in mind, using RC you can expect no API and
> command-line changes before final release. Right now even though Riak
> server has reached RC, not all of our clients are done quite yet as they
> have to lag behind Riak proper a bit.
>
> It has taken a long time for us to hit RC, and trust us that no one feels
> this pain more than us. We thank all our users for being patient with us
> through this extremely long 2.0 cycle, we have put a lot of features into
> 2.0 and that stretched us more thin that we initially hoped. Even so, we
> didn't skimp on testing, so that is why RC is hitting now instead of a few
> months ago.
>
> Thanks again for the support from all of our users.
> -Jared
>
>
>
>
> On Mon, Jul 14, 2014 at 1:46 PM, Dave Martorana  wrote:
>
>> Hi!
>>
>> I've been kind of holding off development for a bit while the Basho team
>> puts the polish on 2.0 - and then I saw a tag - 2.0.0rc1 - in Github from 3
>> days ago.
>>
>> Has riak 2.0 quietly moved in to RC mode? And if so, are we well in to
>> feature freeze now?
>>
>> Is it OK that I'm posting this to the mailing list?
>>
>> Thanks!
>>
>> Dave
>>
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>>
>>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

