---
title: "RE: Implicit calls to ListKeys?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-02-09T20:49:57-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg10067"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg10066"
author_name: "Kevin Burton"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-02-09T20:49:57-08:00
---


There must be another. I am only calling ListKeys and DeleteBucket. Each once, 
so I expect to see this warning twice. Which I do most of the time. But 
occasionally I see this warning 2 or 3 more times. Is it possible that there 
is some kind of recursion going on that triggers this call?

 

From: Alexander Moore [mailto:moore.a...@gmail.com] 
Sent: Saturday, February 09, 2013 10:41 PM
To: Kevin Burton
Cc: riak-users@lists.basho.com
Subject: Re: Implicit calls to ListKeys?

 

Hey Kevin,

 

It looks like only RiakClient.ListKeys(), RiakClient.ListKeysStream(), and 
RiakClient.DeleteBucket() will give you that warning. 
You shouldn't see it popup from anywhere else in CorrugatedIron. 


Thanks,

Alex

 

 

On Sat, Feb 9, 2013 at 11:19 PM, Kevin Burton  wrote:

One more question I have some code that specifically lists the keys in a 
bucket. I am using Corrugated Iron so I get the warning:

 

\*\*\* [CI] -> ListKeys is an expensive operation and should not be used in 
Production scenarios. \*\*\*

 

Then because again this is a test/development environment I am explicitly 
removing the bucket. I get this same warning again and from what I understand 
this is to be expected.

So I run this code with different data sets and every once and a while I get 
two or three of these warnings again. Other than ListKeys and DeleteBucket what 
other calls in CorrugatedIron implicitly call ListKeys and would trigger 
generating this warning again?

 


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

 

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

