---
title: "Re: Riak Java Client"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2015-04-28T01:12:06-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg16079"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg16078"
author_name: "Cosmin Marginean"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2015-04-28T01:12:06-07:00
---


Thanks Alex
Will do. The https://github.com/basho/riak-java-client/issues/512 is causing 
issues on several platforms at the moment

Cheers
Cos



On Tuesday, 28 April 2015 at 03:39, Alex Moore wrote:

> Hi Cos,
> 
> We will continue to support and develop the Java client.
> 
> With Roach's departure I'll be taking over development for it. I've been his 
> understudy of sorts for about a year now, although my focus has been more 
> towards the .NET and PHP clients as of late. 
> 
> >Consequently, if there's no one on this right now, I'm happy to help out 
> >with current and future issues as my time allows it.
> We're happy for any of your help, if you've got any issues / bugs / great 
> ideas just submit an issue on GitHub 
> (https://github.com/basho/riak-java-client/blob/develop/CONTRIBUTING.md) and 
> we'll get the ball rolling from there.
> 
> Thanks,
> Alex
> 
> 
> On Mon, Apr 27, 2015 at 7:04 PM, Cosmin Marginean  (mailto:cosmin...@gmail.com)> wrote:
> > One quick question on the Riak Java Client.
> > 
> > Brian Roach seemed to have been the only active contributor to this. 
> > Recently he mentioned that he's leaving Basho though, so I was wondering if 
> > he'll be maintaining this moving forward.
> > 
> > Since the Riak Java client is now a fundamental part of our ecosystem, I'm 
> > very interested in its destiny (as probably many others are)
> > Consequently, if there's no one on this right now, I'm happy to help out 
> > with current and future issues as my time allows it.
> > 
> > Looking forward to hearing from you
> > 
> > Cheers
> > Cos
> > \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> > riak-users mailing list
> > riak-users@lists.basho.com (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
> > http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> 

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

