---
title: "Re: Cleaning old indexes"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-12-11T10:30:01-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15353"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15190"
author_name: "Luke Bakken"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-12-11T10:30:01-08:00
---


Hi Geoff,

Are you having issues removing the old "global" index? You should be
able to delete it this way:

curl -XDELETE riak-host:8098/search/index/global

> Is it safe to mess with anything within the Solr admin interface (is there a 
> possibility of corruption from Riak -> Solr, or vice versa)?

It's best to leave things alone in production as Riak expects to be
the sole source of control for Solr

--
Luke Bakken
Engineer / CSE
lbak...@basho.com


On Tue, Nov 18, 2014 at 3:36 AM, Geoff Garbers  wrote:
> Hey all.
>
> When our company started out with Riak, there were some choices made with
> regards to indexing that are now coming back to bite us. Currently,
> everything in our Riak cluster is being indexed (dynamicField \* indexed as
> text\_general).
>
> We've learnt a lot about Riak and Solr since then, and we're in the process
> now of trying to fix this; indexing the fields we need with the correct data
> type.
>
> Previously, we had a single search index (called "global") - and everything
> was indexed under this. This is now split out into separate indexes
> ("contacts", "lists", "messages", etc); and I've tried to re-index
> everything - but I don't seem to be able to get rid of the old indexes.
>
> There are a few things I've tried; and they don't seem to help:
>
> 1. Streaming all keys in all buckets, fetching the object, and then putting
> the object.
> 2. Streaming all keys in all buckets, fetching the object, deleting the
> object, and then putting the object back with the same key.
> 2. Unloading the core in the Solr admin interface (it seems like it gets
> re-populated by Riak again).
>
> In summary, this is what I'm struggling to understand:
>
> 1. Is it safe to mess with anything within the Solr admin interface (is
> there a possibility of corruption from Riak -> Solr, or vice versa)?
> 2. How do I go about cleaning out old index data, versus simply (what seems
> to be) creating new index data, without clearing out the old data?
>
> Any help will really be appreciated!
>
> Thanks,
> Geoff
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

