---
title: "Re: Riak DT refresh"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2016-05-17T02:47:06-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg17380"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg17379"
author_name: "Russell Brown"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2016-05-17T02:47:06-07:00
---


On 17 May 2016, at 09:19, Benoit Chesneau  wrote:

> 
> 
> On Tue, May 17, 2016 at 10:15 AM Russell Brown  wrote:
> There’ll still be the need of a version vector, yes. Any advice/contribution 
> on optimisations there greatly appreciated, thanks.
> 
> maybe moving to SWC?
> https://github.com/ricardobcl/ServerWideClocks

I don’t think server wide clocks is the way to go for a library like riak\_dt. 
It imposes too much in terms of the system. I also think ServerWideClocks, 
while very interesting and promising, have some pretty hard unanswered 
questions still. For riak\_dt I tried not to impose a system model, so maybe 
every actor is a replica, or maybe there is a server, or set of servers. But 
this does need documenting.

> 
> would be good in systems where you have a lot of nodes going in and out in 
> the topology.

How do serverwideclocks help with high membership churn?

> 
> For me a must have would be a clear documentation on how using riak\_dt, what 
> to share with the client, how/when to merge etc... It would maybe attract 
> more users too. Going threw the code is quite painful :)

I agree, this is something that is required. Things like when to use deferred 
operations and a context etc are all absent. I hope to spend some time on this 
soon. But yes. I will add that to the list of things that are needed to bring 
some love to riak\_dt.

Cheers

Russell

> 
> - benoit
> 
> 
> On 17 May 2016, at 09:05, Sargun Dhillon  wrote:
> 
> > Is the plan to keep using riak\_dt\_vclock? If so, I might contribute
> > some optimizations for large numbers of actor entries (1000s).
> >
> > On Thu, Apr 28, 2016 at 12:55 AM, Russell Brown  
> > wrote:
> >> Hi,
> >> Riak DT[1] is in need of some love. I know that some of you on this list 
> >> (Sargun, are you here? Heinz?) have expressed opinions on the work that 
> >> needs doing. Here is my short list, I would love to hear opinions on 
> >> priority, and any additions to this list:
> >>
> >> 1. merger smaller map branch
> >> 2. deltas
> >> 3. new data types (we have a range register and some and 
> >> Multi-Value-Register to add, any more?)
> >> 4. Internal state as records or maps (but not these messy tuples)
> >> 5. update to rebar3
> >> 6. update to latest erlang
> >>
> >> I’m pretty sure there is plenty more. Would greatly appreciate your 
> >> feedback.
> >>
> >> Many thanks
> >>
> >> Russell
> >>
> >> [1] https://github.com/basho/riak\_dt/
> >> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> >> riak-users mailing list
> >> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> >> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> >
> > \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> > riak-users mailing list
> > riak-users@lists.basho.com
> > http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> 
> 
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

