---
title: "Re: last_write_wins"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-01-29T02:30:22-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg13524"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg13523"
author_name: "Edgar Veiga"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-01-29T02:30:22-08:00
---


Hi Russel,

No, it doesn't depend. It's always a new value.

Best regards


On 29 January 2014 10:10, Russell Brown  wrote:

>
> On 29 Jan 2014, at 09:57, Edgar Veiga  wrote:
>
> tl;dr
>
> If I guarantee that the same key is only written with a 5 second interval,
> is last\_write\_wins=true profitable?
>
>
> It depends. Does the value you write depend in anyway on the value you
> read, or is it always that you are just getting a totally new value that
> replaces what is in Riak (regardless what is in Riak)?
>
>
>
> On 27 January 2014 23:25, Edgar Veiga  wrote:
>
>> Hi there everyone!
>>
>> I would like to know, if my current application is a good use case to set
>> last\_write\_wins to true.
>>
>> Basically I have a cluster of node.js workers reading and writing to
>> riak. Each node.js worker is responsible for a set of keys, so I can
>> guarantee some kind of non distributed cache...
>> The real deal here is that the writing operation is not run evertime an
>> object is changed but each 5 seconds in a "batch insertion/update" style.
>> This brings the guarantee that the same object cannot be write to riak at
>> the same time, not event at the same seconds, there's always a 5 second
>> window between each insertion/update.
>>
>> That said, is it profitable to me if I set last\_write\_wins to true? I've
>> been facing some massive writting delays under high loads and it would be
>> nice if I have some kind of way to tune riak.
>>
>> Thanks a lot and keep up the good work!
>>
>>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> riak-users mailing list
> riak-users@lists.basho.com
> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>
>
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

