---
title: "Re: riak_repl integration"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2017-12-05T11:31:35-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg18493"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg18492"
author_name: "Bryan Hunt"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2017-12-05T11:31:35-08:00
---


Raghu,

We’re mid way through building packages, in the meantime, if you’re feeling 
impatient you can try the following : 

https://gist.github.com/bryanhuntesl/cc0eefa6939b757ca7b86ebb1d7b29b2 


The above recipe requires a reasonably recent Docker daemon and cli tools 
installed on the host. 

Best Regards,

Bryan Hunt



> On 5 Dec 2017, at 19:17, Raghavendra Sayana 
>  wrote:
> 
> Hey Bryan,
> 
> We are running riak 2.1.4 on RHEL 6
> 
> Thanks
> Raghu
> 
> -----Original Message-----
> From: Bryan Hunt [mailto:bryan.h...@erlang-solutions.com] 
> Sent: Tuesday, December 05, 2017 12:59 PM
> To: Raghavendra Sayana 
> Cc: Dan Sweeney ; riak-users 
> 
> Subject: Re: riak\_repl integration
> 
> Raghu, 
> 
> What bistro are you running? 
> 
> Bryan 
> 
>> On 5 Dec 2017, at 17:10, Russell Brown  wrote:
>> 
>> Hi Raghu,
>> At present Riak is still stuck on the r16 basho OTP. This will change next 
>> year. For now, and the next release of riak, r16 is the compiler you need.
>> 
>> If you want to use riak\_repl with open source riak, there are a couple of 
>> options. There is the 2.2.4 tag in the basho riak repo, which bet365 kindly 
>> put together when riak\_repl was open sourced. Cloning 
>> https://github.com/basho/riak and checking out tag 2.2.4, then running `make 
>> rel` will get you a local release of OS riak as it was at 2.2.3 + riak\_repl. 
>> Someone did mention maybe building packages of 2.2.4, if you’d rather 
>> download than build your own, but I don’t know if that happened yet.
>> 
>> In order to \_use\_ MDC you can follow the docs on basho’s site 
>> http://docs.basho.com/riak/kv/2.2.3/configuring/v3-multi-datacenter/.
>> 
>> There is a branch develop-2.2.5 which is the active work for the next 
>> release of riak, which will contain riak\_repl. We plan to release 
>> riak-2.2.5 (OS riak+repl, and some small features+bug fixes) in early 2018.
>> 
>> Hope that helps
>> 
>> Cheers
>> 
>> Russell
>> 
>> 
>> On 5 Dec 2017, at 16:11, Raghavendra Sayana 
>>  wrote:
>> 
>>> Hi All,
>>> 
>>> I want to use riak MDC replication using riak\_repl module. Is there any 
>>> documentation on how I can perform this integration? Do you know what 
>>> erlang compiler version I should be using to compile the code? Any help on 
>>> this is appreciated.
>>> 
>>> Thanks
>>> Raghu
>>> 
>>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>>> riak-users mailing list
>>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
>> 
>> 
>> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>> riak-users mailing list
>> riak-users@lists.basho.com
>> http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> 
> 

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

