---
title: "Re: Memory-backend TTL"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2014-10-13T17:04:08-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg15023"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg15022"
author_name: "Lucas Grijander"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2014-10-13T17:04:08-07:00
---


Hi Luke.

I really appreciate your efforts to attempt to reproduce the problem. I
think that the configs are right. I have been doing also a lot of tests and
with 1 server/node, the memory bucket works flawlessly, as your test. The
Riak cluster where we have the problem has a multi\_backend with 1 memory
backend, 2 bitcask backends and 2 leveldb backends. I have only changed the
parameter connection of the memory backend in our production code to
another new "cluster" with only 1 node, with the same config of Riak but
with only 1 memory backend under the multi configuration and, as I said,
all fine, the problem vanished. I deduce that the problem appears only with
more than 1 node and with a lot of requests.

In my tests with the production cluster with the problem ( 4 nodes),
finally I realized that the TTL is working but, randomly and suddenly, KEYS
already deleted appear, and KEYS with correct TTL disappear :-? (Maybe
something related with the some ETS internal table? ) This is the moment
when I can obtain KEYS already expired.

In summary:

- With cluster with 4 nodes (config below): All OK for a while and suddenly
we lost the last 20 seconds approx. of keys and OLD keys appear in the
list: curl -X GET http://localhost:8098/buckets/ttl\_stg/keys?keys=true

buckets.default.last\_write\_wins = true
bitcask.io\_mode = erlang
multi\_backend.ttl\_stg.storage\_backend = memory
multi\_backend.ttl\_stg.memory\_backend.ttl = 90s
multi\_backend.ttl\_stg.memory\_backend.max\_memory\_per\_vnode = 25MB
anti\_entropy = passive
ring\_size = 256

- With 1 node: All OK

buckets.default.n\_val = 1
buckets.default.last\_write\_wins = true
buckets.default.r = 1
buckets.default.w = 1
multi\_backend. ttl\_stg.storage\_backend = memory
multi\_backend. ttl\_stg.memory\_backend.ttl = 90s
multi\_backend. ttl\_stg.memory\_backend.max\_memory\_per\_vnode = 250MB
ring\_size = 16



Another note: With this 1 node (32GB RAM) and only activated the memory
backend I have realized than the memory consumption grows without control:


# riak-admin status|grep memory
memory\_total : 17323130960
memory\_processes : 235043016
memory\_processes\_used : 233078456
memory\_system : 17088087944
memory\_atom : 561761
memory\_atom\_used : 561127
memory\_binary : 6737787976
memory\_code : 14370908
memory\_ets : 10295224544

# # riak-admin diag -d debug
[debug] Local RPC: os:getpid([]) [5000]
[debug] Running shell command: ps -o pmem,rss -p 17521
[debug] Shell command output:
%MEM RSS
60.5 19863800

Wow 18.9GB when the max\_memory\_per\_vnode = 250MB. Is far away from the
value, 250\*16vnodes = 4000MB. Is it that correct?

This is the riak-admin vnode-status of 1 vnode, the other 15 are with
similar data:

VNode: 1370157784997721485815954530671515330927436759040
Backend: riak\_kv\_multi\_backend
Status:
[{<<"ttl\_stg">>,
 [{mod,riak\_kv\_memory\_backend},
 {data\_table\_status,[{compressed,false},
 {memory,1156673},
 {owner,<8343.9466.104>},
 {heir,none},

 {name,riak\_kv\_1370157784997721485815954530671515330927436759040},
 {size,29656},
 {node,'riak@xxxxxxxx'},
 {named\_table,false},
 {type,ordered\_set},
 {keypos,1},
 {protection,protected}]},
 {index\_table\_status,[{compressed,false},
 {memory,89},
 {owner,<8343.9466.104>},
 {heir,none},

{name,riak\_kv\_1370157784997721485815954530671515330927436759040\_i},
 {size,0},
 {node,'riak@xxxxxxxxx'},
 {named\_table,false},
 {type,ordered\_set},
 {keypos,1},
 {protection,protected}]},
 {time\_table\_status,[{compressed,false},
 {memory,75968936},
 {owner,<8343.9466.104>},
 {heir,none},

 {name,riak\_kv\_1370157784997721485815954530671515330927436759040\_t},
 {size,2813661},
 {node,'riak@xxxxxxxxx'},
 {named\_table,false},
 {type,ordered\_set},
 {keypos,1},
 {protection,protected}]}]}]

Thanks!

2014-10-13 22:30 GMT+02:00 Luke Bakken :

> Hi Lucas,
>
> I've tried reproducing this using a local Riak 2.0.1 node, however TTL
> is working as expected.
>
> Here is the configuration I have in /etc/riak/riak.conf:
>
> storage\_backend = multi
> multi\_backend.default = bc\_default
>
> multi\_backend.ttl\_stg.storage\_backend = memory
> multi\_backend.ttl\_stg.memory\_backend.ttl = 90s
> multi\_backend.ttl\_stg.memory\_backend.max\_memory\_per\_vnode = 4MB
>
> multi\_backend.bc\_default.storage\_backend = bitcask
> multi\_backend.bc\_default.bitcask.data\_root = /var/lib/riak/bc\_default
> multi\_backend.bc\_default.bitcask.io\_mode = erlang
>
> This translates to the following in
> /var/lib/riak/generated.configs/app.2014.10.13.13.13.29.config:
>
> {multi\_backend\_default,<<"bc\_default">>},
> {multi\_backend,
> [{<<"ttl\_stg">>,riak\_kv\_memory\_backend,[{ttl,90},{max\_memory,4}]},
> {<<"bc\_default">>,riak\_kv\_bitcask\_backend,
> [{io\_mode,erlang},
> {expiry\_grace\_time,0},
> {small\_file\_threshold,10485760},
> {dead\_bytes\_threshold,134217728},
> {frag\_threshold,40},
> {dead\_bytes\_merge\_trigger,536870912},
> {frag\_merge\_trigger,60},
> {max\_file\_size,2147483648},
> {open\_timeout,4},
> {data\_root,"/var/lib/riak/bc\_default"},
> {sync\_strategy,none},
> {merge\_window,always},
> {max\_fold\_age,-1},
> {max\_fold\_puts,0},
> {expiry\_secs,-1},
> {require\_hint\_crc,true}]}]}]},
>
> I set the bucket properties to use the ttl\_stg backend:
>
> root@UBUNTU-12-1:~# cat ttl\_stg-props.json
> {"props":{"name":"ttl\_stg","backend":"ttl\_stg"}}
>
> root@UBUNTU-12-1:~# curl -XPUT -H'Content-type: application/json'
> localhost:8098/buckets/ttl\_stg/props --data-ascii @ttl\_stg-props.json
>
> root@UBUNTU-12-1:~# curl -XGET localhost:8098/buckets/ttl\_stg/props
>
> {"props":{"allow\_mult":false,"backend":"ttl\_stg","basic\_quorum":false,"big\_vclock":50,"chash\_keyfun":{"mod":"riak\_core\_util","fun":"chash\_std\_keyfun"},"dvv\_enabled":false,"dw":"quorum","last\_write\_wins":false,"linkfun":{"mod":"riak\_kv\_wm\_link\_walker","fun":"mapreduce\_linkfun"},"n\_val":3,"name":"ttl\_stg","notfound\_ok":true,"old\_vclock":86400,"postcommit":[],"pr":0,"precommit":[],"pw":0,"r":"quorum","rw":"quorum","small\_vclock":50,"w":"quorum","young\_vclock":20}}
>
>
> And used the following statement to PUT test data:
>
> curl -XPUT localhost:8098/buckets/ttl\_stg/keys/1 -d "TEST $(date)"
>
> After 90 seconds, this is the response I get from Riak:
>
> root@UBUNTU-12-1:~# curl -XGET localhost:8098/buckets/ttl\_stg/keys/1
> not found
>
> I would carefully check all of the app.config / riak.conf files in
> your cluster, the output of "riak config effective" and the bucket
> properties for those buckets you expect to be using the memory backend
> with TTL. I also recommend using the localhost:8098/buckets/ endpoint
> instead of the deprecated riak/ endpoint.
>
> Please let me know if you have additional questions.
> --
> Luke Bakken
> Engineer / CSE
> lbak...@basho.com
>
>
> On Fri, Oct 3, 2014 at 11:32 AM, Lucas Grijander
>  wrote:
> > Hello,
> >
> > I have a memory backend in production with Riak 2.0.1, 4 servers and 256
> > vnodes. The servers have the same date and time.
> >
> > I have seen an odd performance with the ttl.
> >
> > This is the config:
> >
> > {<<"ttl\_stg">>,riak\_kv\_memory\_backend,
> > [{ttl,90},{max\_memory,25}]},
> >
> > For example, see this GET response in one of the riak servers:
> >
> > < HTTP/1.1 200 OK
> > < X-Riak-Vclock: a85hYGBgzGDKBVIc4otdfgR/7bfIYEpkzGNlKI1efJYvCwA=
> > < Vary: Accept-Encoding
> > \* Server MochiWeb/1.1 WebMachine/1.10.5 (jokes are better explained) is
> not
> > blacklisted
> > < Server: MochiWeb/1.1 WebMachine/1.10.5 (jokes are better explained)
> > < Link: ; rel="up"
> > < Last-Modified: Fri, 03 Oct 2014 17:40:05 GMT
> > < ETag: "3c8bGoifWcOCSVn0otD5nI"
> > < Date: Fri, 03 Oct 2014 17:47:50 GMT
> > < Content-Type: application/json
> > < Content-Length: 17
> >
> > If the TTL is 90 seconds, Why the GET doesn't return "not found" if the
> > difference between "Last-Modified" and "Date" (of the curl request) is
> > greater than the TTL?
> >
> > Thanks in advance!
> >
> >
> > \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
> > riak-users mailing list
> > riak-users@lists.basho.com
> > http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com
> >
>
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

