---
title: "Re: Riak CS for start-ups"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-07-22T08:11:41-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08020"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg08019"
author_name: "Mark Phillips"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-07-22T08:11:41-07:00
---


Hi Raman,

Thanks for your interest in the Startups program. And apologies for the lack of 
response from the Basho team. (I'm not sure what happened. I'll look into it.)

More importantly, we'll follow up privately with you about the Startups program.

Best,

Mark


On Jul 22, 2012, at 4:42, ra...@united-partners.co.in wrote:

&gt; Hi All,
&gt; 
&gt; As one of the partners of United Partners, I'd filled out the form on the 
&gt; Basho site and posted my request to join the Riak CS Start-ups program about 
&gt; a week ago. Unfortunately I haven't received any response....in the positive 
&gt; or otherwise.
&gt; 
&gt; Given that my company fulfills all the prerequisites listed in the 
&gt; documentation available on the Basho site....and given that we expect to use 
&gt; riak cs for storing/ retrieving videos, I was hoping to get a response that 
&gt; would let me let me finalize my technology stack.
&gt; 
&gt; Would appreciate it if someone could guide me on any special requirements 
&gt; that aren't listed on the Basho site...OR....for that matter tell me the 
&gt; turn-around-time I should expect for such a request to be fulfilled.
&gt; 
&gt; United Partners (http://www.united-partners.co.in) is a small start-up that 
&gt; provides high-end technology consultancy for large scale transactions, 
&gt; distributed, fault tolerant systems and is in the process of building a 
&gt; couple of global products that could use riak cs. In our 4th month of 
&gt; existence, we are self funded and use our services stream to fund our product 
&gt; efforts.
&gt; 
&gt; Regards,
&gt; 
&gt; Raman
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
