---
title: "RE: Number of nodes and links"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-05-15T16:33:44-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00378"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg00375"
author_name: "Chris Hicks"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-05-15T16:33:44-07:00
---













First of thank you for the responses.

As far as the HTTP interface I don't plan on using that but will be connecting 
directly through Erlang, so that 8kb limit for that specific case, as far as I 
understand, won't affect me as much. I would like to get to understand the 
conflict handling a bit better as in my case I know that this is going to be 
something I will need to pay particular attention to.

I'd like to spell out a scenario that shows how I understand the process to 
work so that you guys can tell me I have it or I'm totally off base. To start 
let me say that the project I'm working on is a game, so imagine a chest with a 
number of items in it which is little more than a chest object with links to 
the specific items contained in the chest.

Player 1, Player 2 and Player 3 all decide to take something from the chest at 
the exact same time. They all retrieve version 0 (using version for simplicity) 
of the chest object from the DB. Player 1's connection/processing is lightning 
fast and they finish, updating the chest document to version 1. Player 2 & 3 
finish at the same time and both try to update the chest document in the 
database, except that it has now changed and so there is a conflict. Now as far 
as I understand it you can tell the DB to return both versions and let the 
program handle it. Does that mean that both Player 2 and Player 3 will get 
version 1 of the document back along with their proposed modified version?

If that is the case it seems like I could, if I plan for it from the beginning, 
simply restart the processing for Player 2 and Player 3 with version 1 acting 
like the original document. In this way I could make sure that actions taken 
from a player are done, more-or-less, in a first come first serve basis. If the 
above is true does it matter how many revisions the document has undergone, as 
far as what is returned after a conflict?

By that I mean what happens if Player 4 tries to get something out of the chest 
at the same time as the other 3, only for some reason their processing is very 
very slow and Players 1, 2 and 3 all finish up completely and the chest 
document is at version 3 when player 4 tries to submit their document back to 
the D. Does Player 4 get version 3 of the document back along with their own 
proposed modified document?

How close am I as far as how the DB handles this?
 
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
Hotmail has tools for the New Busy. Search, chat and e-mail from your inbox.
http://www.windowslive.com/campaign/thenewbusy?ocid=PID28326::T:WLMTAGL:ON:WL:en-US:WM\\_HMP:042010\\_1\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

