---
title: "riak-ruby-client release 1.1.0"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-11-07T19:15:33-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg09245"
author_name: "Sean Cribbs"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-11-07T19:15:33-08:00
---


Hey riak-users,

I'm happy to announce the release and immediate availability of
riak-client version 1.1.0.

Release 1.1.0 includes full Riak 1.2 compatibility, and includes
improvements to the handling of siblings, the node generation
tools, and resolves a number of important bugs.

Features:

\\* Client features are enabled or disabled based on the detected Riak
 version.
\\* Riak 1.2 compatibility, including search and 2I over Protocol
 Buffers.
\\* Phaseless MapReduce (which was available in 1.1) is allowed, using
 feature detection to determine whether an exception is raised.
\\* Conditional store\\_object operations on Protocol Buffers use the
 message features available since Riak 1.0.
\\* The integration test-suite can be run without generating a test
 node, which lets us support riak\\_test.

Bugfixes:

\\* URL-escaping now allows some normally URI-safe characters to be
 escaped.
\\* JRuby should be more reliable when attaching to a generated node's
 console.
\\* The client backend pool has been extracted to the Innertube gem,
 which is now a dependency.
\\* Fix a documentation issue around key-filters.
\\* Fix RSpec formatter and deprecation errors.
\\* Object siblings are now a separate class (RContent) rather than
 being unclean copies of the parent RObject. If only one sibling
 exists, the original accessors (e.g. `content\\_type`, `data`) will
 behave as expected. When more than one sibling exists, they will
 raise `Riak::Conflict`. This should prevent unintentional storing of
 unresolved objects back into Riak as `multipart/mixed` values.
\\* `Riak::Client#ssl=` won't blow away existing `ssl\\_options` if set to
 `true`.
\\* Generated nodes will ensure that the source's
 `ssl\\_distribution.args\\_file` exists by invoking `riak chkconfig`.
\\* Copy fixes for the `$key` index on the memory/test backend from
 riak\\_kv.
\\* The shape of MapReduce results will no longer be changed by the
 Protocol Buffers backend, which manifested as kept phases without
 results being removed from the return value. Implementing this
 required all HTTP requests to use streaming, even if invoked without
 a block.

-- 
Sean Cribbs 
Software Engineer
Basho Technologies, Inc.
http://basho.com/

