---
title: "RE: riak failed to start up"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-08-07T20:33:36-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08208"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg08207"
author_name: "Sangeetha.PattabiRaman2"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-08-07T20:33:36-07:00
---


[root@CTSINGMRGTO riak]# sudo -u riak sh -c 'echo $PATH'
/sbin:/bin:/usr/sbin:/usr/bin
[root@CTSINGMRGTO riak]# sudo -u riak -i
-bash: id: command not found
-bash: tty: command not found
-bash: grep: command not found
-bash: sed: command not found

Still the same .unable to start

-----Original Message-----
From: riak-users-boun...@lists.basho.com 
[mailto:riak-users-boun...@lists.basho.com] On Behalf Of Richard Heycock
Sent: Wednesday, August 08, 2012 9:00 AM
To: riak-users
Subject: Re: riak failed to start up

Excerpts from Sangeetha.PattabiRaman2's message of 2012-08-07 21:15:16 +1000:
&gt; Hi ,
&gt;
&gt; Can any one help me on the start up error ..thx in advance
&gt; [root@CTSINGMRGTO riak]# cat console.log
&gt; 2012-08-07 09:13:54.260 [error] &lt;0.164.0&gt; CRASH REPORT Process
&gt; riak\\_core\\_capability with 0 neighbours exited with reason: no function
&gt; clause matching orddict:fetch('riak@127.0.0.1', []) line 72 in
&gt; gen\\_server:terminate/6 line 747
&gt;
&gt; [root@CTSINGMRGTO riak]# riak start
&gt; Attempting to restart script through sudo -u riak
&gt; /etc/profile: line 31: id: command not found
&gt; /usr/sbin/riak: line 6: uname: command not found
&gt; /usr/sbin/riak: line 6: [: too many arguments
&gt; /usr/sbin/riak: line 30: whoami: command not found sudo doesn't appear
&gt; to be installed and your EUID isn't riak

This looks like your PATH isn't being set. Is "sudo -u riak"

sudo -u riak sh -c 'echo $PATH'

should show something like:

 /usr/local/bin:/usr/bin:/bin

try getting a shell as riak:

 sudo -u riak -i

checking the path is ok and run it from there.

rgh

&gt;
&gt; on running as service
&gt;
&gt; [root@CTSINGMRGTO riak]# service riak start Starting Riak: Riak failed
&gt; to start within 15 seconds, see the output of 'riak console' for more
&gt; information.
&gt; If you want to wait longer, set the environment variable
&gt; WAIT\\_FOR\\_ERLANG to the number of seconds to wait.
&gt; [FAILED]
&gt;
&gt; Thanks & regards
&gt; sangeetha
&gt;
&gt; This e-mail and any files transmitted with it are for the sole use of the 
&gt; intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential and privileged 
&gt; information. If you are not the intended recipient(s), please reply to the 
&gt; sender and destroy all copies of the original message. Any unauthorized 
&gt; review, use, disclosure, dissemination, forwarding, printing or copying of 
&gt; this email, and/or any action taken in reliance on the contents of this 
&gt; e-mail is strictly prohibited and may be unlawful.
--
[e]: r...@roughage.com.au
[im]: r...@jabber.org

You're worried criminals will continue to penetrate into cyberspace, and I'm 
worried complexity, poor design and mismanagement will be there to meet them - 
Marcus Ranum


This e-mail and any files transmitted with it are for the sole use of the 
intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential and privileged information. 
If you are not the intended recipient(s), please reply to the sender and 
destroy all copies of the original message. Any unauthorized review, use, 
disclosure, dissemination, forwarding, printing or copying of this email, 
and/or any action taken in reliance on the contents of this e-mail is strictly 
prohibited and may be unlawful.

