---
title: "Re: Announcing a new PHP client"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-11-28T07:44:27-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg09400"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg09397"
author_name: "Mark Steele"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-11-28T07:44:27-08:00
---


You could generate the php glue code via the protocol buffer command line
tool that's part of the Drslump protobuf package, which I could pull into
my package.

The command I use is in the readme.

Mark

On Wednesday, November 28, 2012, Sean Cribbs wrote:

&gt; Mark,
&gt;
&gt; That's awesome! If there's a way we can make the riak\\_pb repo generate the
&gt; PHP code automatically (and distributable), please let me know.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Tue, Nov 27, 2012 at 11:04 PM, Mark Steele 
&gt;  'm...@control-alt-del.org');&gt;
&gt; &gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi folks,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I've finally gotten around to writing up a PB client for PHP.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; The URL: https://github.com/marksteele/riak-php
&gt;&gt; Background:
&gt;&gt; http://www.control-alt-del.org/2011/09/06/building-a-better-riak-client-for-php/
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; It's a full implementation supporting all the features of 1.2.1 that are
&gt;&gt; exposed via the PB API.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; It's usage is similar to the official client (chaining of operations and
&gt;&gt; so on). Operations should be pretty self explanatory and there's PHPDoc
&gt;&gt; formatted comments for those that want to generate API documentation.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I haven't written unit tests yet, because I'm using the TiP (testing in
&gt;&gt; production) methodology. See 
&gt;&gt; here.
&gt;&gt; Also a fan of the TTITW method (the things I tested worked).
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; As mentioned in the README, it's faster than the current Basho PHP
&gt;&gt; implementation in my testing, but YMMV.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Works with PHP 5.3 and up.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Cheers,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Mark Steele
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com &gt; 'riak-users@lists.basho.com');&gt;
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt; &gt;
&gt; Software Engineer
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; http://basho.com/
&gt;
&gt;
