---
title: "Re: Riak scenarios"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-08-04T08:36:04-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04222"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04216"
author_name: "Jeremiah Peschka"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-08-04T08:36:04-07:00
---


When I asked phark for such a document, he said:

So, here is what we generally caution \\*against\\* using Riak for:

1) It's not a graph database
2) Time Series apps (it's doable but not optimal)
2) Stuff that is analytics-heavy or requires a lot of adhoc queries.

It'd be nice to see examples of how other people are using Riak to build out 
their environment.

---
Jeremiah Peschka
Founder, Brent Ozar PLF, LLC

On Aug 4, 2011, at 7:33 AM, Jonathan Langevin wrote:

&gt; It would be great to see Riak configuration & use scenarios, available online 
&gt; (not just buried in the list somewhere).
&gt; 
&gt; One such scenario that I'd be interested in seeing, is a setup where you have 
&gt; a Riak cluster with a specific node that is used for all reads/writes of an 
&gt; application.
&gt; The idea is to ensure that the data is always online (via cluster), but also 
&gt; ensure that you always have the latest version of your data (specific single 
&gt; node read/write).
&gt; If this primary node goes down, then just switch the application to a new 
&gt; primary node. That could occur via application logic or other solution that 
&gt; exists between application and riak cluster.
&gt; 
&gt; To represent such a scenario as I've requested, someone would post their 
&gt; suggested/recommended Riak config, client read config, client write config, 
&gt; and any other relevant information, especially pros/cons and if they have in 
&gt; fact used this configuration before (with[out] success).
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; It would be good to have a scenario wishlist, where someone lists what they 
&gt; would like to see a usable configuration, which others can respond to with 
&gt; their configuration / use case.
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; If Basho/Riak were interested in providing such a function to the community, 
&gt; maybe to make this available sooner than later, it could be implemented via 
&gt; the Wiki, with some basic guidelines?
&gt; 
&gt; This idea wouldn't need to exist exactly as I've presented it, just something 
&gt; that achieves a similar goal would be quite useful.
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; Jonathan Langevin
&gt; Systems Administrator
&gt; Loom Inc.
&gt; Wilmington, NC: (910) 241-0433 - jlange...@loomlearning.com - 
&gt; www.loomlearning.com - Skype: intel352
&gt; 
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

