---
title: "Re: Custom Extractor Syntax"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-10-03T10:30:58-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04997"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04982"
author_name: "Greg Pascale"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-10-03T10:30:58-07:00
---


 Good to know, thanks. 

Upvote for being able to unset properties over HTTP. We don't deploy erlang in 
production and rely on curl to set all our properties, so that'd be great for 
us. 

-- 
Greg
Clipboard

On Sunday, October 2, 2011 at 8:11 PM, Ryan Zezeski wrote:

&gt; Greg,
&gt; 
&gt; Yes, use the new property going forward. The old property will still work but 
&gt; at some point will be phased out. When that happens it will be documented in 
&gt; the release notes.
&gt; 
&gt; You currently can't remove a bucket property. In the case where 
&gt; rs\\_extractfun is still set in a future version it shouldn't matter because it 
&gt; will just be ignored by the code. However, I could maybe see this being an 
&gt; issue if you wanted to change a property to no longer have any effect (e.g. 
&gt; unset a custom extractor). Currently, as it stands, you could do this by 
&gt; setting the property to `undefined` but that can only be achieved via the 
&gt; Erlang client. We should probably have a way to set a sentinel value via HTTP 
&gt; as well. 
&gt; 
&gt; -Ryan
&gt; 
&gt; On Fri, Sep 30, 2011 at 7:51 PM, Greg Pascale  (mailto:g...@clipboard.com)&gt; wrote:
&gt; &gt; Hi, 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; Somewhere along the line, it looks like the mechanism for setting a custom 
&gt; &gt; extractor changed slightly. The documentation now says to set a property 
&gt; &gt; called search\\_extractor with the fields mod, fun and arg. 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; It used to be a property called rs\\_extractfun with the fields language, 
&gt; &gt; function and module.
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; The old rs\\_extractfun syntax still seems to work with 1.0, but I'm 
&gt; &gt; wondering if I should switch over the new style to stay compatible with 
&gt; &gt; future releases. This also brings up an interesting question - how do I 
&gt; &gt; unset a bucket property? 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; -- 
&gt; &gt; Greg
&gt; &gt; Clipboard
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; 

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

