---
title: "Re: Issue in make all"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-01-09T08:52:05-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06181"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06180"
author_name: "suresh chandran"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-01-09T08:52:05-08:00
---


Also, I uninstalled the older Erlang and installed, 14B03 sing the below set of 
commands.

curl -O https://raw.github.com/spawngrid/kerl/master/kerl; chmod a+x kerl

./kerl build R14B03 r14b03

./kerl install r14b03 /opt/erlang/r14b03


. /opt/erlang/r14b03/activate


to resolve this version issue. I am not sure why it says the curent ERLANG 
version is 15B.

Thanks
Suresh Chandran

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
 From: suresh chandran 
To: Sean Cribbs  
Cc: "riak-users@lists.basho.com"  
Sent: Monday, January 9, 2012 11:47 AM
Subject: Re: Issue in make all
 

Thanks Sean

I tried it. But it still reports the same issue. On other hand, is 
it picking the regex from somewhere else, cos' i dont see the regex to match 
r13b04 which it says is supported.

Thanks
Suresh Chandran


\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
 From: Sean Cribbs 
To: suresh chandran  
Cc: "riak-users@lists.basho.com"  
Sent: Monday, January 9, 2012 10:09 AM
Subject: Re: Issue in make all
 

Suresh,

We do not officially support R15B yet, but you can try changing the regex in 
rebar.config to include R15.

{require\\_otp\\_vsn, "R14B0[234]|R15"}. 

The above should do the trick.


On Mon, Jan 9, 2012 at 9:58 AM, suresh chandran  wrote:

I am trying to install Riak in my macbook. I installed erlang using "sudo port 
install erlang +ssl" . When i do a "make all" in riak, i get the below error 
and it quits.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;I am trying to install the source as mentioned 
&gt;http://wiki.basho.com/Building-a-Development-Environment.html. For some weird 
&gt;reason, when i install the tarball, i am not able to connect to 8091 and also 
&gt;I am not able to find the number of partitions. How do I configure the port 
&gt;where riak is running and the number of partitions in tarball? 
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;Thanks
&gt;Suresh Chandran
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; make all
&gt;fatal: Not a git repository (or any of the parent directories): .git
&gt;./rebar get-deps
&gt;fatal: Not a git repository (or any of the parent directories): .git
&gt;fatal: Not a git repository (or any of the parent directories): .git
&gt;fatal: Not a git repository (or any of the parent directories): .git
&gt;==&gt; cluster\\_info (get-deps)
&gt;==&gt; skerl (get-deps)
&gt;==&gt; lager (get-deps)
&gt;==&gt; poolboy (get-deps)
&gt;==&gt; protobuffs (get-deps)
&gt;==&gt; basho\\_stats (get-deps)
&gt;==&gt; riak\\_sysmon (get-deps)
&gt;==&gt; mochiweb (get-deps)
&gt;==&gt; webmachine (get-deps)
&gt;==&gt; riak\\_core (get-deps)
&gt;==&gt; riakc (get-deps)
&gt;==&gt; luke (get-deps)
&gt;==&gt; erlang\\_js (get-deps)
&gt;==&gt; bitcask (get-deps)
&gt;==&gt; merge\\_index (get-deps)
&gt;==&gt; ebloom (get-deps)
&gt;==&gt; eper (get-deps)
&gt;==&gt; eleveldb (get-deps)
&gt;==&gt; edown (get-deps)
&gt;==&gt; sext (get-deps)
&gt;==&gt; riak\\_pipe (get-deps)
&gt;==&gt; basho\\_metrics (get-deps)
&gt;==&gt; riak\\_kv (get-deps)
&gt;==&gt; luwak (get-deps)
&gt;==&gt; lucene\\_parser (get-deps)
&gt;==&gt; riak\\_search (get-deps)
&gt;==&gt; rel (get-deps)
&gt;==&gt; riak-1.0.2 (get-deps)
&gt;./rebar compile
&gt;fatal: Not a git repository (or any of the parent directories): .git
&gt;fatal: Not a git repository (or any of the parent directories): .git
&gt;fatal: Not a git repository (or any of the parent directories): .git
&gt;==&gt; cluster\\_info (compile)
&gt;ERROR: OTP release R15B does not match required regex R13B04|R14
&gt;make: \\*\\*\\* [compile] Error 1
&gt;
&gt;


-- 
Sean Cribbs 
Software Engineer
Basho Technologies, Inc.
http://basho.com/

