---
title: "Re: High volume data series storage and queries"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-08-09T07:43:30-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04280"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04268"
author_name: "Alexander Sicular"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-08-09T07:43:30-07:00
---


A couple of thoughts:

-disk io
-total keys versus memory
-data on disk overhead

As Jeremiah noted, disk io is crucial. Thankfully, Riak's distributed mesh
gives you access to a number of spindles limited only by your budget. I
think that is a critical bonus of a distributed system like Riak that is
often not fully appreciated. Here Riak is a win for you.

Bitcask needs all keys to fit in memory. We are talking something like:

(key length + overhead) \\* number of keys \\* replicas &lt; cluster max available
ram.

There is a tool on the wiki which should help figure this out. What that
basically means for you is that you will have to batch your data by some
sensor/time granularity metric. Let's say every minute. At 10hz that is a
600x reduction in total keys. Of course, this doesn't come for free. Your
application middleware will have to accommodate. That means you could lose
up to whatever your time granularity batch is. Ie. You could lose a minute
of sensor data should your application fail. Here Riak is neutral to
negative.

Riak data structure is not friendly towards small values. Sensor data
generally spit out integers or other small data tuples. If you search the
list archives you will find a magnificent data overhead writeup. IIRC, it
was something on the order of 450b. What that basically tells you is that
you can't use bitcask for small values if disk space is a concern, as I
imagine it to be in this case. Also, sensor data is generally write only,
ie. never deleted or modified, so compaction should not be a concern when
using bitcask. Here Riak is a strong negative.

Data retrieval issues aside (which between Riak Search/secondary
indexes/third party indexes should not be a major concern), I am of the
opinion that Riak is not a good fit for high frequency sensor data
applications.

Cheers,
Alexander

Sent from my rotary phone.
On Aug 8, 2011 9:40 PM, "Paul O"  wrote:
&gt; Quite a few interesting points, thanks!
&gt;
&gt; On Mon, Aug 8, 2011 at 5:53 PM, Jeremiah Peschka &lt;
jeremiah.pesc...@gmail.com
&gt;&gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Responses inline
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Aug 8, 2011, at 1:25 PM, Paul O wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Will any existing data be imported? If this is totally greenfield, then
&gt;&gt; you're free to do whatever zany things you want!
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Almost totally greenfield, yes. Some data will need to be imported but
it's
&gt; already in the format described.
&gt;
&gt; Ah, so you need IOPS throughput, not storage capacity. On the hardware
side
&gt;&gt; make sure your storage subsystem can keep up - don't cheap out on disks
just
&gt;&gt; because you have a lot of nodes. A single rotational HDD can only handle
&gt;&gt; about 180 IOPS on average. There's a lot you can do on the storage
backend
&gt;&gt; to make sure you're able to keep up there.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Indeed, storage capacity is also an issue but IOPS would be important,
too.
&gt; I assume that sending batches to Riak (opaque blobs) would help a lot with
&gt; the quantity of writes, but it's still a very important point.
&gt;
&gt; You may want to look into ways to force Riak to clean up the bitcask
files.
&gt;&gt; I don't entirely remember how it's going to handle cleaning up deleted
&gt;&gt; records, but you might run into some tricky situations where compactions
&gt;&gt; aren't occurring.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Hm, any references regarding that? It would be a major snag in the whole
&gt; schema Riak doesn't properly reclaim space for deleted records.
&gt;
&gt; Riak is pretty constant time for Bitcask. The tricky part with the amount
of
&gt;&gt; data you're describing is that Bitcask requires (I think) that all keys
fit
&gt;&gt; into memory. As your data volume increases, you'll need to do a
combination
&gt;&gt; of scaling up and scaling out. Scale up RAM in the nodes and then add
&gt;&gt; additional nodes to handle load. RAM will help with data volume, more
nodes
&gt;&gt; will help with write throughput.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Indeed, for high frequency sources that would create lots of bundles even
&gt; the MaxN to 1 reduction for key names might still generate loads of keys.
&gt; Any idea how much RAM Riak requires per record, or a reference that would
&gt; point me to it?
&gt;
&gt; Since you're searching on time series, mostly, you could build time
indexes
&gt;&gt; in your RDBMS. The nice thing is that querying temporal data is well
&gt;&gt; documented in the relational world, especially in the data warehousing
&gt;&gt; world. In your case, I'd create a dates table and have a foreign key
&gt;&gt; relating to my RDBMS index table to make it easy to search for dates.
&gt;&gt; Querying your time table will be fast which reduces the need for scans in
&gt;&gt; your index table.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; EXAMPLE:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; CREATE TABLE timeseries (
&gt;&gt; time\\_key INT,
&gt;&gt; date TIMESTAMP,
&gt;&gt; datestring VARCHAR(30),
&gt;&gt; year SMALLINT,
&gt;&gt; month TINYINT,
&gt;&gt; day TINYINT,
&gt;&gt; day\\_of\\_week TINYINT
&gt;&gt; -- etc
&gt;&gt; );
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; CREATE TABLE riak\\_index (
&gt;&gt; id INT NOT NULL,
&gt;&gt; time\\_key INT NOT NULL REFERENCES timeseries(time\\_key),
&gt;&gt; riak\\_key VARCHAR(100) NOT NULL
&gt;&gt; );
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; SELECT ri.riak\\_key
&gt;&gt; FROM timeseries ts
&gt;&gt; JOIN riak\\_index ri ON ts.time\\_key = ri.time\\_key
&gt;&gt; WHERE ts.date BETWEEN '20090702' AND '20100702';
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt; My plan was to have the riak\\_index contain something like: (id,
start\\_time,
&gt; end\\_time, source\\_id, record\\_count.)
&gt;
&gt; Without going too much into RDBMS fun, this pattern can get your RDBMS
&gt;&gt; running pretty quickly and then you can combine that with Riak's
performance
&gt;&gt; and have a really good idea of how quick any query will be.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; That's roughly the plan, thanks again for your contributions to the
&gt; discussion!
&gt;
&gt; Paul
