---
title: "Re: Riak or Cassandra for this..."
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-06-29T05:30:41-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03865"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg03864"
author_name: "Dave Gardner"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-06-29T05:30:41-07:00
---


If you're worried about management overhead, you may find Brisk interesting.
This is a DataStax product which combines Cassandra 0.8 with Hadoop and Hive
in an easy-to-use package. I have no Java expertise but I find it very easy
to get along with. I think it will come down to the data model as to whether
Cassandra's column-based store suits your use case better.

http://www.datastax.com/docs/0.8/brisk/about\\_brisk

Dave

On 29 June 2011 12:46, Evans, Matthew  wrote:

&gt; Hi,
&gt;
&gt; LevelDB seems very interesting. Looking at the specs it appears that it
&gt; should be more than fast enough.
&gt;
&gt; Thanks
&gt;
&gt; Matt
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; From: David Smith [diz...@basho.com]
&gt; Sent: Tuesday, June 28, 2011 10:04 PM
&gt; To: Evans, Matthew
&gt; Cc: riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; Subject: Re: Riak or Cassandra for this...
&gt;
&gt; On Tue, Jun 28, 2011 at 9:17 AM, Evans, Matthew 
&gt; wrote:
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; The disadvantages of Riak are:
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; 1) Write performance. We need to handle ~50,000 writes per second.
&gt;
&gt; I would note that we are investigating the use of LevelDB in lieu of
&gt; InnoDB due to superior write performance and better crash recovery.
&gt; 50k writes per second is pretty steep, but my belief (although you
&gt; should only trust your own benchmarking!) is that LevelDB will get you
&gt; close with sufficient nodes.
&gt;
&gt; &gt; I would recommend running our client app from within the same Erlang VM
&gt; as Riak so hopefully we can gain something here. Alternatively use innostore
&gt; Erlang API directly for writes.
&gt;
&gt; I would recommend against running in the same Erlang VM, if at all
&gt; possible. Running within the same Erlang VM makes it much more
&gt; difficult for you to distinguish performance/latency characteristics
&gt; of your app versus Riak. It also means that your app or Riak could
&gt; adversely affect one another if they cause the VM to crash; you limit
&gt; possibilities for a robust system. We encourage people to use the
&gt; Protocol Buffers (PBC) API if performance/latency is a concern -- odds
&gt; are you'll spend more time waiting on disk I/O than messaging between
&gt; two VMs on a loopback socket once the dataset gets big.
&gt;
&gt; Of course, there are always points in time where it's ok to break the
&gt; rules -- engineering is the art of tradeoffs, after all. :) I would
&gt; just suggest that you shouldn't start with a single VM -- measure
&gt; first performance over PBC and see where you can get.
&gt;
&gt; &gt; Questions:
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; 1) Is Riak a good database for this application?
&gt;
&gt; There are certainly people who are using Riak for large, time-ordered
&gt; datasets and are (insofar as I know) generally happy with their choice
&gt; -- for all the advantages you listed earlier. From a features
&gt; standpoint, we are also working on a number of features that would
&gt; further improve Riak's performance and applicability to this domain
&gt; (improvements to MapReduce on large datasets, secondary indexing for
&gt; more efficient range searches, availability of LevelDB, etc).
&gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; 2) Can we write to InnoDB directly and still leverage the map-reduce
&gt; queries on the data?
&gt;
&gt; Nope, sorry. Riak does essential coordination between nodes and needs
&gt; to manage the data storage aspect to ensure predictable semantics.
&gt;
&gt; Hope that helps,
&gt;
&gt; D.
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Dave Smith
&gt; Director, Engineering
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; diz...@basho.com
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

