---
title: "Re: eLevelDB max_open_files in 1.2.0"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-08-16T06:41:35-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08302"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg08270"
author_name: "Dave Brady"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-08-16T06:41:35-07:00
---


Thanks, Mark!

I have a somewhat-related follow up question: is there a recommended maximum 
for the amount of data held on a machine?

I ask because at my previous company Cassandra was used, and we were advised to 
put no more 250 GB per physical box. The reasoning was that in a failure 
situation, rebuilding any more than this amount of data would cause too great a 
performance degradation.

--
Dave Brady

----- Original Message -----
From: "Mark Phillips" 
To: "Dave Brady" 
Cc: riak-users@lists.basho.com
Sent: Tuesday, August 14, 2012 7:34:10 PM GMT +01:00 Amsterdam / Berlin / Bern 
/ Rome / Stockholm / Vienna
Subject: Re: eLevelDB max\\_open\\_files in 1.2.0

Hi Dave,

On Sun, Aug 12, 2012 at 3:58 PM, Dave Brady  wrote:
&gt; Hello,
&gt;
&gt; First I want to thanks Basho for greatly expanding the documentation on the 
&gt; Wiki for configuring/tuning Riak and eLevelDB in 1.2.0! Big improvement over 
&gt; 1.1.x.
&gt;
&gt; My question is about max\\_open\\_files: here the documentation is confusing to 
&gt; me.
&gt;
&gt; It says to allocate one open file per 2 MB, then divide by the number of 
&gt; partitions. This is the same formula used in 1.1.x.
&gt;
&gt; It goes on to say that if you manually set this parameter in 1.1.x, to divide 
&gt; that value by two for 1.2.0.
&gt;
&gt; Should not the formula for 1.2.0, in that case, read as use one file per 4 MB?

Long story short, the answer is "yes" :)

With 1.2, 4MB is the advised file size, and you should be running with
no less that 20 files/nodes. I'll take a pass at updating the docs to
make this a bit easier to understand. Thanks for pointing that out.

Mark

&gt;
&gt; Thankks!
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Dave Brady
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

