---
title: "Riak Recap for 6/18 - 6/20"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-06-21T11:15:54-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00626"
author_name: "Mark Phillips"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-06-21T11:15:54-07:00
---


Afternoon, Evening, Morning to all,

Hope everyone had a great weekend. Here is a short recap to kick off the week.

Best,

Mark

Community Manager
Basho Technologies
twitter.com/pharkmillups
wiki.basho.com

----

Riak Recap for 6/18 - 6/20

1) Benjamin Black (@b6n) will be giving a hands on Riak Tutorial
tomorrow at Velocity Tomorrow.

Description here ---&gt;
http://en.oreilly.com/velocity2010/public/schedule/detail/15572

Bonus: if you're going to Velocity and want to get your hands on some
Basho swag, read this ---&gt; http://bit.ly/aGhbZ0

2) Q ---&gt; I have setup a small tree node, using the fast track, so now
it is running on http://127.0.0.1:8091, 8092 and 8093 - from a
javascript i log user sessions, what is the way to load this data into
riak - do i have to specify a port or do i have to setup a load
balancer to deal with this mapping?? (from khine via #riak)

 A ---&gt; Any node in the cluster can handle any and all requests;
the usual recommendation is to round robin requests to cluster nodes
via a load balancer. Each node also has a /ping resource that can be
used for health checks (http://localhost:8091/ping)

3) drev1 and jbd had a quick chat about "hinted writes" in Riak.

Gist here ---&gt; http://gist.github.com/447204

4) Q --- I've been putting together some tests using riak over the
last week. I noted recently when doing a source compile that the
default backend switched from DET to bitcask, and I seem to be getting
much better speeds from bitcask than Innostore, but I keep hitting a
problem
I'm running the tests on a bunch of amazon EC2 instances with 1.7 GB
of ram, but I keep running into out of memory issues
does anyone have any recommendations on how to solve this? (from
sastopher via #riak)

 A --- That is the primary limitation of bitcask, currently. If
your number of keys and size of keys are large, and your memory is
not, then you want another backend, perhaps innostore. For most users
we know of, the ratio works out well. Using 1G RAM servers, for
instance, is generally not a good call for a large database of any
variety. But Bitcask as it exists today will only perform if your
entire set of keys that live on a given machine (plus a couple of
bytes per key) can fit into that machine's RAM.

5) @argv0 pushed a few changes to Riak's Python Client.

Check them out here ---&gt; http://hg.basho.com/riak-python-client

