---
title: "Re: Upgrading 0.14.2 cluster to 1.2"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-08-08T10:39:47-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08222"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg08221"
author_name: "Sebastian Cohnen"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-08-08T10:39:47-07:00
---


I'm curious, are there any special reasons for your recommendation?

On 08.08.2012, at 19:38, Jon Meredith  wrote:

&gt; I would recommend going 0.14.2 -&gt; 1.1.4 -&gt; 1.2, making sure you follow the 
&gt; pre-1.0 upgrade instructions on http://wiki.basho.com/Rolling-Upgrades.html 
&gt; 
&gt; Once you do the upgrade from 1.2, the capabilities system will kick in and 
&gt; the old legacy settings mentioned in the rolling upgrade will no longer be 
&gt; used (if you need to you can override them with the new capability override 
&gt; mechanism).
&gt; 
&gt; Jon.
&gt; 
&gt; On Wed, Aug 8, 2012 at 10:23 AM, Nathan Wilken  wrote:
&gt; Is an intermediate upgrade recommended? 0.14.2 --&gt; 1.0/1.1 --&gt; 1.2?
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; From: riak-users-boun...@lists.basho.com [riak-users-boun...@lists.basho.com] 
&gt; on behalf of Sean Cribbs [s...@basho.com]
&gt; Sent: Wednesday, August 08, 2012 6:35 AM
&gt; To: Sebastian Cohnen
&gt; Cc: riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; Subject: Re: Upgrading 0.14.2 cluster to 1.2
&gt; 
&gt; Sebastian,
&gt; 
&gt; While it might work, we did not specifically test upgrades from 0.14.2, only 
&gt; 1.0 and 1.1.
&gt; 
&gt; On Wed, Aug 8, 2012 at 7:08 AM, Sebastian Cohnen  
&gt; wrote:
&gt; Hey list,
&gt; 
&gt; is it a good idea to upgrade a small (3 node) cluster straight to 1.2 from 
&gt; 0.14.2. Especially with riak's 1.2 capabilities negotiation, it feels like 
&gt; the upgrade process should be much simpler now? We don't do any M/R jobs 
&gt; currently and we are only using bitcask right now.
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; Best
&gt; 
&gt; Sebastian
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; -- 
&gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt; Software Engineer
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; http://basho.com/
&gt; 
&gt; 
 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; -- 
&gt; Jon Meredith
&gt; Platform Engineering Manager
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; jmered...@basho.com
&gt; 
