---
title: "Re: Protocol buffer Vs BERT"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-04-20T13:17:09-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00091"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg00090"
author_name: "Jon Meredith"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-04-20T13:17:09-07:00
---

Hi,

For the first part - we used protocol buffers because we had requests 
for a PB interface from customers and as developers we have more 
experience using it on other projects.


For the second part - I would recommend using the PB interface. It has 
about the same performance as riak\\_client now and is a clean external 
interface to the system that we will strive to keep backward compatible. 
It's also cleaner to use as you don't need to extract any modules from 
riak to use it.


We'll work on making the documentation clearer - the PB interface is new 
for the 0.10 release and is still working it's way into the documentation.


-- Jon

On 4/20/10 1:32 PM, Senthilkumar Peelikkampatti wrote:
BERT is used by GIthub as RPC for Ruby/Erlang integration and the 
purpose is documented here 
github.com/blog/531-introducing-bert-and-bert-rpc 
 and

bert-rpc.org/ 
It is mainly created to avoid some of the shortcomings in Protocol 
Buffer and Thrift. BERT has good support for multipe languages like 
PB/Thrift. I definetly hope that for Riak, you guys would have studied 
deeply before venture into PB. Do you have any writeups for choosing 
PB over BERT?
This question arises when I want to talk to Riak from another elrnag 
app.I am using raik\\_client and its dependant module for talking to 
Riak from another Erlang application (it is not co-located), is that 
the right way to do (I listed modules needed for native erlang RPC 
here 
pmsenthilkumar.blogspot.com/2010/04/riak-thoughts-on-erlang-based-client.html 
)? 
or should I use riak-erlang-client? It is kind of not clear by looking 
at various blogs and wikis or doucments included as part of Riak under 
folder doc. Sorry for trying to connect 2 different questions in this 
mailing list.

--
Regards,
Senthilkumar Peelikkampatti,
http://pmsenthilkumar.blogspot.com/
