---
title: "Riakkit 0.6.0a (python riak ORM) released: code restructuring, bug	fixes, unittesting, and more"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-07-04T07:40:13-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07864"
author_name: "Shuhao Wu"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-07-04T07:40:13-07:00
---


Hi Riak users,

It's been a while since I've done a riakkit release, so let me quickly
introduce the project (again, for some of you). Riakkit is basically
an object mapper for python and riak. It allows for RAD with a lot of
automation. Here's a basic example code:

 class User(Document):
 client = riak.RiakClient()
 bucket\\_name = "users"

 name = StringProperty(required=True)

 &gt;&gt;&gt; user = User(name="foo")
 &gt;&gt;&gt; user.save()
 &gt;&gt;&gt; print user.name
 foo

Some quick notes on this release:

Last time I did a release, many people suggested that riakkit is a
little too slow due to the automations done by it and some automations
are actually not necessary for many purposes. So in this release, I've
completely rewritten riakkit to address (or start to address) some of
those issues. While a large part of the original overhead still
exists, this time it should be much easier to modify the behaviours
and make the whole thing more efficient. On top of that, I've
introduced another level of abstraction (SimpleDocument).
SimpleDocument doesn't perform a lot of the automations available to
the highest level of abstraction (Document) and is much much faster.
However, coding using it will be slower (should still be faster than
using the base riak-python-client, though).

I'm looking for more feedback as I'm still trying to improve the speed
of riakkit (as[ issue
#1](https://github.com/ultimatebuster/riakkit/issues/1) points out,
riakkit is too slow).

You can find more information in the git repo if you're interested in
using riakkit for your next project or just simply check it out:
https://github.com/ultimatebuster/riakkit and the website at
http://github.com/ultimatebuster/riakkit

Cheers,

Shuhao

