---
title: "Re: full cluster failure"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-06-12T08:10:53-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07665"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg07664"
author_name: "Gil Teixeira"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-06-12T08:10:53-07:00
---


Anything… please do help me in regard to what files i should send… 

On Jun 12, 2012, at 10:55 PM, Mark Phillips wrote:

&gt; Hi Gil,
&gt; 
&gt; Anything in the logs you can share?
&gt; 
&gt; Mark
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Jun 12, 2012, at 1:28, Gil Teixeira  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Hi,
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Hellow, I am faily new to RIAK, and am experiencing a very peculiar problem. 
&gt;&gt; We are conducting a RIAK evaluation to see if it fits our purposes, because 
&gt;&gt; on paper it seams to be a perfect fit.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; To create an evaluating scenario i have setup 5 nodes under vmware(the 
&gt;&gt; network is bridged)
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; The cluster runs just fine, and i can down nodes for maintenance as expected 
&gt;&gt; perfectly, while the cluster keeps serving the data as expected. Node 
&gt;&gt; reboots are also tolerated well by the cluster as expected.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; But if a note unexpectedly fails (hard power off or sudden network 
&gt;&gt; disconnection) all nodes get exited and the full cluster becomes 
&gt;&gt; inaccessible until the failed node is back up or until i manually mark the 
&gt;&gt; failed node as down with risk-admin.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; I was expecting a cluster (n3) with 5 nodes to simply tolerate 1 node 
&gt;&gt; failure transparently. 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Is there something i may be doing wrong? Is this the expected behavior?
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; I would appreciate any light anyone could shine on this subject.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Thank you,
&gt;&gt; Gil
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com


\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

