---
title: "Re: Hello, Bitcask!"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-05-05T09:53:19-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00261"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg00259"
author_name: "francisco treacy"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-05-05T09:53:19-07:00
---


Great news! I am planning to try it out soon in development.

2010/5/5 Justin Sheehy :
&gt; Riak Users,
&gt;
&gt; You might have noticed that we released a new local key/value store
&gt; recently: http://blog.basho.com/2010/04/27/hello,-bitcask/
&gt;
&gt; As of just now, it is available as a storage engine ("backend") in the
&gt; tip of the Riak repository.
&gt;
&gt; You can use it like any other backend just by setting the
&gt; storage\\_backend application variable in the riak\\_kv application to
&gt; riak\\_kv\\_bitcask\\_backend (in your "app.config") on a fresh node so that
&gt; it will use Bitcask for storage.
&gt;
&gt; There is a new application in app.config, "bitcask", for more detailed
&gt; configuration of bitcask behavior.  Some of the variables you can set
&gt; in there are:
&gt;
&gt; data\\_root: string (required) - the directory for bitcask to use for
&gt; storage and metadata
&gt;
&gt; merge\\_strategy: {hours, N} - perform a data file merge every N hours
&gt;
&gt; sync\\_strategy: how to manage syncing of data files being written.  choices:
&gt;   none   (default)        - let the O/S decide
&gt;   o\\_sync                   - use the O\\_SYNC flag to sync each write
&gt;   {seconds, N}           - call bitcask:sync/1 every N seconds
&gt;
&gt; A couple of things aren't done yet, including more proactive
&gt; generation of hintfiles, faster startup time, smarter merge
&gt; strategies, more extensive testing on more platforms, documentation on
&gt; usage, and more.  We are not yet recommending this as a primary
&gt; production backend, but we expect to very soon.  Your feedback is
&gt; welcomed.
&gt;
&gt; -Justin
&gt;
&gt; p.s. -- it's not slow.
&gt;
