---
title: "Re: Unable to access solr port."
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-10-20T10:12:13-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05212"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg05209"
author_name: "vijayakumar"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-10-20T10:12:13-07:00
---


Hi Dan,

Appending with select also doesn't help.

"curl http://:8098/solr//select?q="
returns the following response

404 Not FoundNot Found
=========

The
requested document was not found on this
server.

---

mochiweb+webmachine web
server

Regards,
Vijay.


On Thu, Oct 20, 2011 at 9:37 PM, Dan Reverri  wrote:

&gt; Hi Roberto,
&gt;
&gt; Can you try appending '/select' after the bucket name? For example:
&gt; curl "http://localhost:8098/solr/books/select?start=0&rows=10000&q=prog\\*"
&gt;
&gt; I found the above query in the Riak Search documentation here:
&gt; http://wiki.basho.com/Riak-Search---Querying.html
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; Dan
&gt;
&gt; Daniel Reverri
&gt; Developer Advocate
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; d...@basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Thu, Oct 20, 2011 at 1:19 AM, Roberto Calero &lt;
&gt; roberto\\_cal...@hotmail.com&gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; http://:8098/solr/
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; ------------------------------
&gt;&gt; Date: Thu, 20 Oct 2011 13:46:18 +0530
&gt;&gt; Subject: Unable to access solr port.
&gt;&gt; From: forgetvi...@gmail.com
&gt;&gt; To: riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi,
&gt;&gt; I installed riaksearch-0.14 version and I am able to define schema and
&gt;&gt; query records with command line interface (search-cmd). But I am facing
&gt;&gt; issue when I try to query the records with solr interface.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; "curl http://:8098/solr/bucketname?q=" returns
&gt;&gt; the following response
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; 404 Not FoundNot Found
=========

The
&gt;&gt; requested document was not found on this
&gt;&gt; server.

---

mochiweb+webmachine web
&gt;&gt; server


&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; and
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; "curl http://:8098/" returns the following response
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; * [riak\\_kv\\_wm\\_link\\_walker](/riak)
* &gt; href="/mapred"&gt;riak\\_kv\\_wm\\_mapred
* &gt; href="/ping"&gt;riak\\_kv\\_wm\\_ping
* &gt; href="/riak"&gt;riak\\_kv\\_wm\\_raw
* &gt; href="/stats"&gt;riak\\_kv\\_wm\\_stats
.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Is there any configuration entry that I am missing to enable "solr"
&gt;&gt; interface. Kindly help me out.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt; Vijay.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_ riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
