---
title: "Re: Ripple & an attribute named 'key'"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-02-12T19:50:33-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg02298"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg02303"
author_name: "Mat Ellis"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-02-12T19:50:33-08:00
---


The point of the code is not to use a non-string ID but to generate a default. 
Is it 'failing' because we're attempting to override the type? The actual code 
in question (this is a simplification) is generating a GUID which can easily be 
stored as a string instead of an integer. Otherwise we'll just have to use some 
other term, your example is precisely what we're doing.

Thx

On Feb 12, 2011, at 7:47 PM, Sean Cribbs wrote:

&gt; The choice of "key" as the method/attribute name corresponds to the Riak 
&gt; terminology for the same concept (and is analogous to "id" in ActiveRecord). 
&gt; If you want to use a non-String value for the key, create a property of some 
&gt; other name and then use the "key\\_on" method which makes a defined property 
&gt; act as the key.
&gt; 
&gt; property :some\\_num, Integer, :presence =&gt; true, :default =&gt; 1234
&gt; key\\_on :some\\_num
&gt; 
&gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt; Developer Advocate
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; http://basho.com/
&gt; 
&gt; On Feb 12, 2011, at 8:00 PM, Mat Ellis wrote:
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Why do these behave differently in Ripple?
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; # Leaves key field blank
&gt;&gt; property :key, Integer, :presence =&gt; true, :default =&gt; 1234
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; # Populates key2 field with 1234
&gt;&gt; property :key2, Integer, :presence =&gt; true, :default =&gt; 1234
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; We'd like to use the key field as a standard (like the 'id' field is the 
&gt;&gt; default in ActiveRecord). Is this a bad idea and if so why?
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; M.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt; 
