---
title: "Re: Riak Recap for Nov. 1 - 2"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-11-04T08:20:16-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01457"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg01453"
author_name: "Dan Reverri"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-11-04T08:20:16-07:00
---


Alexander is correct, a full bucket query on any bucket will perform a list
keys across all keys in the cluster.

Thanks,
Dan

Daniel Reverri
Developer Advocate
Basho Technologies, Inc.
d...@basho.com


On Wed, Nov 3, 2010 at 9:25 PM, Alexander Sicular wrote:

&gt; Could we get some more clarification on question 3. M/R over a bucket with
&gt; "less" keys. I'm fairly certain that an m/r over a bucket does a listkeys
&gt; across all keys in the cluster.
&gt;
&gt; Thanks, Alexander
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; @siculars on twitter
&gt; http://siculars.posterous.com
&gt;
&gt; Sent from my iPhone
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Nov 3, 2010, at 20:13, Mark Phillips  wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Evening, Morning, Afternoon to all,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; For today's Recap we have slides, some new productions users on the
&gt;&gt; wiki, a drink up happening in SF tonight, and some great Q & A.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Enjoy!
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Mark
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Community Manager
&gt;&gt; Basho Technologies
&gt;&gt; wiki.basho.com
&gt;&gt; twitter.com/pharkmillups
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; ----
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Riak Recap for Nov. 1 - 2
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; 1) Wilson Macgyver (@wmacgyver) posted his slides from a Riak talk he
&gt;&gt; gave at the recent 1DevDay Detroit event.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Presentation can be viewed here ---&gt; http://bit.ly/9Xs44r
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks, Wilson!
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; 2) We added two new users to the "Who is Using Riak" Page on the wiki
&gt;&gt; - ZayMobile Technology and Division by Zero.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; http://wiki.basho.com/display/RIAK/Who+is+Using+Riak
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Anyone else out there who should be on this page? Don't hesitate to
&gt;&gt; let me know...
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; 3) Q --- Is there any sense in separating some bucket with a lot of
&gt;&gt; keys to some smaller buckets so I can later use then in mapred
&gt;&gt; separately, will it give any performance boost? e.g. I have client's
&gt;&gt; orders in one bucket, and I can put orders of each client in separate
&gt;&gt; buckets. (from hoodoos via #riak)
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; A --- Yes. The smaller number of keys your bucket holds, the
&gt;&gt; faster the map/reduce will be (as a rule).
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; 4) Q --- Does anyone know if the bitcask storage engine performs
&gt;&gt; better with extfs4 or xfs ? (from DangerDawson via #riak)
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; A --- This is not something we have hard and fast numbers on. If
&gt;&gt; you happen to properly bench it before we get to it, let us know :)
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; 5) Q --- Is it possible to load third party javascript libraries like
&gt;&gt; underscore.js to be available in map/reduce functions? (from clofresh
&gt;&gt; via #riak)
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; A --- This can be done in app.config in 'js\\_source\\_dir' under
&gt;&gt; 'riak\\_kv settings' Start here ---&gt;
&gt;&gt; https://wiki.basho.com/display/RIAK/Configuration+Files
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; 6) Q --- The HTTP interface allows queries to run via solr. with the
&gt;&gt; php client, it allows only lucene syntax. my question is, if I use the
&gt;&gt; php client I need to write something to query via solr, if I want to
&gt;&gt; use solr? (from joseph\\_sh #riak)
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; A --- If you want to query Riak Search as Solr, you should use a
&gt;&gt; Solr client. We support enough of the Solr interface to make some
&gt;&gt; clients work, but not all of them. If you find that the PHP Solr
&gt;&gt; client is not completely compatible with Riak Search, we will happily
&gt;&gt; accept patches.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; 7) Q --- I'm having trouble using nginx as proxy in front of luwak
&gt;&gt; but not riak, anyone familiar with this? (from johnae via #riak)
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; A --- This is not something that we've tested yet. A detailed
&gt;&gt; email to the Mailing List might help us straighten it out.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; 8) Q --- Is there any plan to eventually support JSON data, via the
&gt;&gt; Solr interface, in addition to XML?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; https://wiki.basho.com/display/RIAK/Riak+Search+-+Indexing#RiakSearch-Indexing-Indexing
&gt;&gt; (from acts\\_as via #riak)
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; A --- At the moment you can serve results as JSON but cannot
&gt;&gt; index JSON. There is planned support for this in future releases.
&gt;&gt; Patches are, of course, welcome.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; 9) Q --- Without me having to mine the code - does riak use pb rpc or
&gt;&gt; something custom for transport of pb messages? (from dysinger via
&gt;&gt; #riak)
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; A --- It's a 32-bit length of message code + protocol buffer
&gt;&gt; message in network order. More details here ---&gt;
&gt;&gt; https://wiki.basho.com/display/RIAK/PBC+API
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; 10) Last minute reminder for anyone at QCon and/or in San Francisco:
&gt;&gt; Basho is co-sponsoring a drink up with the Heroku team at a bar
&gt;&gt; called Bloodhound located at 1145 Folsom Street. It starts at 9. Email
&gt;&gt; me or message me on twitter with any questions.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

