---
title: "Re: [ANN] Riak Release 0.11.0"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-06-11T11:20:57-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00565"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg00552"
author_name: "Jason J. W. Williams"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-06-11T11:20:57-07:00
---


Is it smart enough to coordinate with the other partitions to ensure
not more than 25% (just a plug number) of the partitions are
compacting at the same time? It would seem to me there's the
possibility for a performance drop if you had the perfect storm of too
many shards compacting at the same time.

-J

On Fri, Jun 11, 2010 at 4:54 AM, Justin Sheehy  wrote:
&gt; Hi, Germain.
&gt;
&gt; On Fri, Jun 11, 2010 at 11:07 AM, Germain Maurice
&gt;  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Because of its append-only nature, stale data are created, so, how does
&gt;&gt; Bitcask to remove stale data ?
&gt;
&gt; An excellent question, and one that we haven't yet written enough about.
&gt;
&gt;&gt; With CouchDB the compaction process on our data never succeed, too much
&gt;&gt; data.
&gt;&gt; I really don't like to have to launch manually this kind of process.
&gt;
&gt; Bitcask's merging (compaction) process is automated and very tunable.
&gt; These parameters are the most relevant in your bitcask section of
&gt; app.config:
&gt;
&gt; (see the whole thing at http://hg.basho.com/bitcask/src/tip/ebin/bitcask.app)
&gt;
&gt; %% Merge trigger variables. Files exceeding ANY of these
&gt; %% values will cause bitcask:needs\\_merge/1 to return true.
&gt; %%
&gt; {frag\\_merge\\_trigger, 60},              % &gt;= 60% fragmentation
&gt; {dead\\_bytes\\_merge\\_trigger, 536870912}, % Dead bytes &gt; 512 MB
&gt;
&gt; %% Merge thresholds. Files exceeding ANY of these values
&gt; %% will be included in the list of files marked for merging
&gt; %% by bitcask:needs\\_merge/1.
&gt; %%
&gt; {frag\\_threshold, 40},                  % &gt;= 40% fragmentation
&gt; {dead\\_bytes\\_threshold, 134217728},     % Dead bytes &gt; 128 MB
&gt; {small\\_file\\_threshold, 10485760},      % File is &lt; 10 MB
&gt;
&gt; Every few minutes, the Riak storage backend for a given partition will
&gt; send a message to bitcask, requesting that it queue up a possible
&gt; merge job.  (only one partition will be in the merge process at once
&gt; as a result of that queue)  The bitcask application will examine that
&gt; partition when that request reaches the front of the queue.  If any of
&gt; the trigger values have been exceeded, then all of the files in that
&gt; partition which exceed any threshold values will be run through
&gt; compaction.
&gt;
&gt; This allows you a great deal of flexibility in your demands, and also
&gt; provides reasonable amortization of the cost since each partition is
&gt; processed independently.
&gt;
&gt; -Justin
&gt;
