---
title: "Re: riak ubuntu 11 building problems"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-10-31T11:07:02-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05389"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg05362"
author_name: "Ivan Trajkovic"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-10-31T11:07:02-07:00
---


so yes the build on ubuntu 11.04 is definitely broken. I tried multiple
machines.
ubuntu 10.04 builds without a glitch.

online I see no tutorials on building on 11.04
is this something thats not a common case?

On Sat, Oct 29, 2011 at 2:08 AM, Ivan Trajkovic  wrote:

&gt; hello all
&gt; Im having some problems with building riak from the github sources, on
&gt; ubuntu 11
&gt; Ive reproduced this issue on one of my home computers and a linode virtual
&gt; server, both running ubuntu 11
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; first of all riak 1.0.1 checkout requires me to have erlang R14B3, which
&gt; is confusing to me since the riak\\_1.0.1\\_i386.deb seems to be working off of
&gt; erlang R15A.
&gt; the requirement is manifested in a message being spit out half way through
&gt; the riak "make rel", about erlang not being of the correct version.
&gt; so I compiled a older R14B3 version of erlang and restarted the riak build
&gt; process...
&gt; it does finish "make rel" then but goes on to require "nodetools" which
&gt; are not present in the erts-5.9 which is whats being checked, and is
&gt; instead hiding in erts-5.8.4 folder (which is not whats used by riak). so I
&gt; went ahead and copied nodetools from 5.8.4 and put it in 5.9... it doesnt
&gt; complain about that anymore after that... however then the new memsup
&gt; issues pop up, with the Erlang VM dying each time I run "riak start"
&gt; without any messages except mentioning memsup as the final issue...
&gt;
&gt; for the memsup issue I did check that ulimit is allowing 1024 file
&gt; handles, and have increased that limit further as well, but no luck.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; please let me know if you need some more info about my setup, or
&gt; thoughts/ideas about what I might be dealing with.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; help is appreciated
&gt; thanks
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
