---
title: "Re: PDF or OpenOffice Impresse presentations instead of .KEY +	Windows question"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-01-05T17:04:26-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01900"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg01899"
author_name: "OJ Reeves"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-01-05T17:04:26-08:00
---


As someone who has to spend most of their time in Windows at the moment, I'd
like to just add my view.

For the sake of development and testing, I have found that running a number
of Riak nodes in a Linux VM on my Windows desktop is as fast, if not faster,
than talking to other databases (such as SQL Server and MySQL) with native
installations. The time and effort to set this up is also comparable.

As far as production deployments are concerned I would be happy (if not
prefer) to fire up Linux servers to run my Riak nodes instead of Windows.
Partly because of the cost involved, partly for other reasons such as
overhead.

In short, don't let the lack of Windows support put you off. You can still
have a great time with Riak even if your main OS is Windows. I've not found
it to be a barrier at all.

Just my $0.02 :) All the best with your experiments.

OJ


On 6 January 2011 10:53, Justin Sheehy  wrote:

&gt; Hello, Jérôme.
&gt;
&gt; It looks like Jeremiah has already answered one of your questions, so
&gt; I'll get the other.
&gt;
&gt; On Wed, Jan 5, 2011 at 6:41 PM, Jérôme Verstrynge 
&gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt; &gt; My other question/remark is: there does not seem to be a downloadable
&gt; &gt; version of Riak for Windows. Is there a technical reason for this or is
&gt; it a
&gt; &gt; 'religious' issue?
&gt;
&gt; There's certainly no operating system religion at work here, simply
&gt; the limited resources of a small team. A few different people in the
&gt; community have been working on Windows support, which we think is a
&gt; great idea -- we just currently don't have anyone spare to make
&gt; official windows releases, QA and benchmark those releases on various
&gt; windows systems, and so on.
&gt;
&gt; -Justin
&gt;


-- 

OJ Reeves
http://buffered.io/
