---
title: "Re: webcast on riak_core?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-04-04T12:30:00-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg02877"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg02874"
author_name: "Jon Brisbin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-04-04T12:30:00-07:00
---


I'm really interested to see how we can graduate from simple OTP to a real 
distributed app that parallelizes workloads, partitions data, the whole nine 
yards... :)

I know start-ups are using core already to power Erlang-based cloud apps 
(riak\\_core, Riak, maybe a little messaging thrown in for good measure :) and 
after getting into it, I can see why.

Anything geared toward cloud-scale apps would be great. What to put on Riak 
itself, what to put in your app w/ riak\\_core. How to handle netsplits, etc... I 
can think of loads of things from the super simple to the super complex.

jb


On Apr 4, 2011, at 1:59 PM, Mark Phillips wrote:

&gt; Hey Jon,
&gt; 
&gt; A webcast (or better yet a series of webcasts) on riak\\_core is a great
&gt; idea, and something we've been talking about producing. Guess we'll
&gt; just have to move a bit faster :) The first one will probably be an
&gt; overview of how to build a simple app with riak\\_core.
&gt; 
&gt; Time permitting, we'll try and get some more content out there around
&gt; core. What else would you like to see?
&gt; 
&gt; Mark
&gt; 
&gt; On Sat, Apr 2, 2011 at 3:30 PM, Jon Brisbin  wrote:
&gt;&gt; Would really love to watch a webcast on using riak\\_core for our own 
&gt;&gt; apps--hint, hint. I've got it running and now want to know what's next! :)
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Pouring over the BashoBanjo app to trick and figure it out. But still need 
&gt;&gt; more meat.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Thanks!
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Jon Brisbin
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; http://jbrisbin.com
&gt;&gt; Twitter: @j\\_brisbin
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 


Thanks!

Jon Brisbin

http://jbrisbin.com
Twitter: @j\\_brisbin

