---
title: "Re: Riak search query timeout issues with 1.2.1 stable"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-12-20T08:18:58-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg09652"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg09650"
author_name: "Abhinav Singh"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-12-20T08:18:58-08:00
---


Yes Ryan, as I figured out it had to do with different erlang versions.
Thanks for your thoughts and time.

Cheers,
--
Abhinav Singh
http://abhinavsingh.com/

On 20-Dec-2012, at 9:24 PM, Ryan Zezeski  wrote:

&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Thu, Dec 20, 2012 at 9:51 AM, Abhinav Singh  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; error.log on riak@172.17.3.82 contains:
&gt; 2012-12-20 16:27:37.877 [error] &lt;0.1821.0&gt;@mi\\_server:handle\\_info:524 
&gt; lookup/range failure: 
&gt; {{badfun,#Fun},[{mi\\_server,iterate,6},{mi\\_server,lookup,8}]}
&gt; 2012-12-20 16:27:37.878 [error] emulator Error in process &lt;0.4075.0&gt; on node 
&gt; 'riak@172.17.3.82' with exit value: 
&gt; {{badfun,#Fun},[{mi\\_server,iterate,6},{mi\\_server,lookup,8}]}
&gt; 
&gt; 2012-12-20 16:27:37.878 [error] &lt;0.1940.0&gt;@mi\\_server:handle\\_info:524 
&gt; lookup/range failure: 
&gt; {{badfun,#Fun},[{mi\\_server,iterate,6},{mi\\_server,lookup,8}]}
&gt; 2012-12-20 16:27:37.882 [error] emulator Error in process &lt;0.4077.0&gt; on node 
&gt; 'riak@172.17.3.82' with exit value: 
&gt; {{badfun,#Fun},[{mi\\_server,iterate,6},{mi\\_server,lookup,8}]}
&gt; 
&gt; This is a very specific error and is an indication that the lambda created in 
&gt; riak\\_search\\_client cannot be instantiated after being sent over the network. 
&gt; As I said, I have only ever seen this with mixed versions.
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; We don't really have mixed riak release. But yes we do have a mixed erlang 
&gt; releases. Not sure if that makes any difference here.
&gt; 
&gt; riak@172.17.3.82
&gt; Erlang R14B04 (erts-5.8.5) [source] [64-bit] [smp:2:2] [rq:2] 
&gt; [async-threads:0] [kernel-poll:false]
&gt; 
&gt; riak@172.17.3.63
&gt; Erlang R15B (erts-5.9) [source] [64-bit] [smp:4:4] [async-threads:0] [hipe] 
&gt; [kernel-poll:false]
&gt; 
&gt; I bet this is it. In order for a lambda to be reconstructed after being sent 
&gt; over the wire very specific conditions need to be met. My guess is either 
&gt; the erlang version is checked explicitly or is part of the module hash, thus 
&gt; causing this failure. Checkout this post by Kresten Krab Thorup.
&gt; 
&gt; http://www.javalimit.com/2010/05/passing-funs-to-other-erlang-nodes.html
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; ~~~~~~~~~~~~
&gt; 
&gt; Unfortunately none of these error happens on our local dev environment.
&gt; On my local dev box, I run a 5 node cluster (ofcourse all nodes on same 
&gt; physical machine).
&gt; 
&gt; Yes, because they are all using the same erlang version.
&gt; 
&gt; -Z

