---
title: "Re: read-modify-write via python client"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-09-29T12:31:09-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08751"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg08749"
author_name: "Adam Lindsay"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-09-29T12:31:09-07:00
---


David, 

Adding to what Michael said, an idiomatic pattern I've been using is:

obj = kv.bucket(b).get(name)
data = f.get\\_data() or {'my\\_list': []}
data['my\\_list'].append(something)

obj.set\\_data(data)
obj.store()


[usually it's `f.get\\_data() or {}` when I use it, but you should see the 
pattern.]

Hope that helps save a couple lines at a time,
-- 
Adam Lindsay


On Saturday, 29 September 2012 at 03:23, David Lowell wrote:

&gt; Hi folks,
&gt; 
&gt; Simple question here. Based on the python client documentation, I'm unclear 
&gt; on the canonical means to perform in python a read-modify-write cycle on an 
&gt; object stored in Riak. 
&gt; 
&gt; What seems intuitive to me:
&gt; 
&gt; obj = kv.bucket(b).get(name)
&gt; if f.exists():
&gt; data = f.get\\_data()
&gt; # todo: check for siblings, and resolve
&gt; else:
&gt; data = {'my\\_list': []}
&gt; data['my\\_list'].append(something) 
&gt; 
&gt; obj.set\\_data(data)
&gt; obj.store()
&gt; 
&gt; My assumption here is that the RiakObject 'obj' has internally kept the 
&gt; vector clock for this key, and when this update gets stored, it will do the 
&gt; right thing. However, the documentation doesn't say that's what will happen. 
&gt; In fact, I can't find anything in the documentation that makes it clear how 
&gt; to do this read-modify-write.
&gt; 
&gt; There is this piece of documentation for the python client API:
&gt; 
&gt; | populate(self, Result)
&gt; | Populate the object based on the return from get.
&gt; |
&gt; | If None returned, then object is not found
&gt; | If a tuple of vclock, contents then one or more
&gt; | whole revisions of the key were found
&gt; | If a list of vtags is returned there are multiple
&gt; | sibling that need to be retrieved with get.
&gt; 
&gt; This is obviously not very clear. This sounds like it has something to do 
&gt; with read-modify-write, but who knows.
&gt; 
&gt; So, is my intuition in the code above correct? Or should we write back a 
&gt; modified object through some other means like populate()?
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks for the guidance,
&gt; 
&gt; Dave
&gt; 
&gt; --
&gt; Dave Lowell
&gt; d...@connectv.com (mailto:d...@connectv.com)
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; 


\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

