---
title: "Re: riaksearch memory growth issues"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-05-31T08:52:23-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03500"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg03466"
author_name: "Gordon Tillman"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-05-31T08:52:23-07:00
---


Howdy Gilbert,

I reproduced the issue this morning and then ran the command that you specified 
on two of the non-empty mailboxes.

The output from that is posted here:

https://gist.github.com/1000735

Please let me know if this corresponds to the issue that you are seeing.

Thank you,

--gordon


On May 27, 2011, at 20:10 , Gilbert Glåns wrote:

Gordon,
Could you try:

erlang:process\\_info(list\\_to\\_pid("&lt;0.16614.32&gt;"), [messages,
current\\_function, initial\\_call, links, memory, status]).

in a riak search console for one/some of those mailboxes and share the
results? I am curious to see if you are having the same systemic
memory consumption I am experiencing.

Gilbert

On Fri, May 27, 2011 at 5:15 PM, Gordon Tillman 
&gt; wrote:

Howdy Gang,

We are having a bit of an issue with our 3-node riaksearch cluster. What is 
happing is this:

Cluster is up and running. We start testing our application against it. As 
the application runs the erlang process consumes more and more memory without 
ever releasing it.

In trying to investigate the issue we ran the riaksearch-admin cluster\\_info 
command. It appears that the bulk of this memory is being consumed by a bunch 
of mailboxes.

I have posted both the output of the cluster\\_info command and the app.config 
from one of the nodes here:

https://gist.github.com/996419

I would be very grateful if someone from Basho would take a look at the 
cluster\\_info and see if they can spot anything obvious.

Each machine in the cluster has an 8-core Xeon and 16GB RAM. I believe all of 
the platform details, etc., are in the cluster\\_info dump.

Many thanks,

--gordon
