---
title: "Re: Large ring_creation_size"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-04-13T13:56:56-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03014"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg03012"
author_name: "Jon Meredith"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-04-13T13:56:56-07:00
---


Hi Greg et al,

As you say largest known is not largest possible. Internally within Basho,
the largest cluster we've experimented with so far had 50 nodes.

Going beyond that it's speculation from me about pain points.

1) It is true that you need enough file descriptors to start up all
partitions when a node restarts - Riak checks if there is any handoff data
pending for each partition. We have work scheduled to address that in the
medium term. The plan is to only spin up partitions the node owns and any
that have been started as fallbacks that handoff has not completed for.
Until that work is done you will need a high ulimit with large ring sizes.

2) It is also true that Erlang runs a fully connected network, so there will
be connections between each node pair in the cluster. We haven't determined
the point at which it becomes a problem.

So it looks like you'll be pushing the known limits. Basho will do our very
best to help overcome any obstacles as you encounter them.

Jon Meredith
Basho Technologies.

On Wed, Apr 13, 2011 at 1:41 PM, Greg Nelson  wrote:

&gt; The largest known riak cluster != the largest possible riak cluster. ;-)
&gt;
&gt; The inter node communication of the cluster depends on the data set and
&gt; usage pattern, doesn't it? Or is there some constant overhead that tops out
&gt; at a few hundred nodes? I should point out that we'll have big data, but
&gt; not a huge number of keys.
&gt;
&gt; The number of vnodes in the cluster should be equal to the
&gt; ring\\_creation\\_size under normal circumstances, shouldn't it? So when I have
&gt; a one node cluster, that node is running ring\\_creation\\_size vnodes... File
&gt; descriptors probably isn't a problem -- these machines won't be doing
&gt; anything else, and the limits are set to 65536.
&gt;
&gt; Thinking about the internode communication you mentioned, that's probably
&gt; where the resource hog is.. socket buffers, etc.
&gt;
&gt; Anyway, I'd also love to hear more from basho. :)
&gt;
&gt; On Wednesday, April 13, 2011 at 12:33 PM, sicul...@gmail.com wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Ill just chime in and say that this is not practical for a few reasons. The
&gt; largest known riak cluster has like 50 or 60 nodes. Afaik, inter node
&gt; communication of erlang clusters top out at a few hundred nodes. I'm also
&gt; under the impression that each physical node has to have enough file
&gt; descriptors to accommodate every virtual node in the cluster.
&gt;
&gt; I'd love to hear more from basho.
&gt;
&gt; -alexander
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Sent from my Verizon Wireless BlackBerry
&gt;
&gt; -----Original Message-----
&gt; From: Greg Nelson 
&gt; Sender: riak-users-boun...@lists.basho.com
&gt; Date: Wed, 13 Apr 2011 12:13:34
&gt; To: 
&gt; Subject: Large ring\\_creation\\_size
&gt;
