---
title: "Re: Riak Adoption - What can we do better?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-04-19T11:00:29-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07241"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg07239"
author_name: "Mathias Meyer"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-04-19T11:00:29-07:00
---


Thanks for the praise of my book. I'm curious though, what does "advanced" 
entail for you guys? I'm continuously working on updates for the book, and I'm 
happy to look at things that you think are missing, but it'd be great to have 
some more concrete examples of what you think a book on advanced Riak usage 
should cover.

Thanks!

Cheers, Mathias 


On Thursday, 19. April 2012 at 19:57, Alexander Sicular wrote:

&gt; +1 for Mathias' book. It rocks. But I still think that an even more advanced 
&gt; book will only get so much of an audience. 
&gt; 
&gt; The masses like to be shown. They don't like to read. Frankly, that means 
&gt; screencasts. 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; @siculars on twitter
&gt; http://siculars.posterous.com
&gt; 
&gt; Sent from my iRotaryPhone
&gt; 
&gt; On Apr 19, 2012, at 13:54, "Jason J. W. Williams"  (mailto:jasonjwwilli...@gmail.com)&gt; wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; &gt; On Thu, Apr 19, 2012 at 11:37 AM, Zabrane Mickael  &gt; (mailto:zabra...@gmail.com)&gt; wrote:
&gt; &gt; &gt; +1 for a solid book on advanced Riak usage.
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; Better marketing of Mathias' excellent Riak Handbook would definitely
&gt; &gt; help...would be great if it showed up on Amazon at least if not
&gt; &gt; bn.com (http://bn.com).
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; Someday replication making it into the community version would be
&gt; &gt; really nice...it's one of the few areas where Cassandra has a leg up.
&gt; &gt; Makes it easier to sell/stand up a resilient proof-of-concept across
&gt; &gt; availability zones and then buy support when the installation is grown
&gt; &gt; to support more production load.
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; -J
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
