---
title: "Re: Riak_KV::Riak_PB"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-06-29T09:33:46-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07834"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg07832"
author_name: "Andrew Zeneski"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-06-29T09:33:46-07:00
---


Thanks Sean, 

Would those minor issues explain this error message I get?

client\\_test.go:230: 0: Error processing incoming message: 
error:badarg:[{erlang,list\\_to\\_float,
 
[["0.00000",101,43,48]]},
 
{riak\\_search\\_utils,to\\_float,
 1},
 
{riak\\_search\\_pb\\_query,
 
encode\\_results,3},
 
{riak\\_search\\_pb\\_query,
 process,2},
 
{riak\\_api\\_pb\\_server,
 
process\\_message,4},
 
{riak\\_api\\_pb\\_server,
 
handle\\_info,2},
 
{gen\\_server,handle\\_msg,5},
 
{proc\\_lib,init\\_p\\_do\\_apply,3}]
FAIL


Andrew

&gt; Andrew,
&gt; 
&gt; Yes it is, but we have some minor dependency/build issues to resolve. The 
&gt; next pre-release tag should have the appropriate fixes.
&gt; 
&gt; On Fri, Jun 29, 2012 at 12:17 PM, Andrew Zeneski  
&gt; wrote:
&gt; I built the 1.2.0pre3 (and master) and now have secondary index lookups 
&gt; working in my client api; I am testing search right now but getting errors; 
&gt; is RpbSearchQueryReq (PBC) implemented in 1.2?
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks!
&gt; 
&gt; Andrew
&gt; 
&gt; On Jun 28, 2012, at 4:26 PM, Andrew Zeneski wrote:
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Thanks Sean, 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Indeed, sending either of those messages to Riak will result in a dropped 
&gt;&gt; connection. 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; I would like to move forward with my client implementation so that it will 
&gt;&gt; be ready when 1.2 is released. 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Can I join in on the QA and maybe get a snapshot? Or should I be looking for 
&gt;&gt; the 1.2 branch on github?
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Andrew
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On Jun 28, 2012, at 4:14 PM, Sean Cribbs  wrote:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Hi Andrew,
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Those were added to be part of the 1.2 release, which is in testing/QA 
&gt;&gt;&gt; phases now. You can expect the release sometime next month. If you intend 
&gt;&gt;&gt; to use the .proto files in your client application, be aware that they may 
&gt;&gt;&gt; not be supported on the server yet (in fact, 1.1 and earlier will likely 
&gt;&gt;&gt; dump the connection).
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; On Thu, Jun 28, 2012 at 4:11 PM, Andrew Zeneski  
&gt;&gt;&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt; I am working on a new protocol buffer based client using the master riak\\_pb 
&gt;&gt;&gt; repository. I would just like to inquire on the state of riak\\_kv with the 
&gt;&gt;&gt; latest pb, specifically is RpbIndexReq and RpbSearchQueryReq implemented 
&gt;&gt;&gt; yet (I know it is not in 1.1.4), if not is there a road map or any idea 
&gt;&gt;&gt; when.
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Thanks!
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Andrew
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; -- 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Software Engineer
&gt;&gt;&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://basho.com/
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; -- 
&gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt; Software Engineer
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; http://basho.com/
&gt; 

