---
title: "Re: Best way of versioning POJOs/'schemas'"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-07-24T06:39:42-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08040"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg08038"
author_name: "Rune Skou Larsen"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-07-24T06:39:42-07:00
---

Hi Tim!

You're probably refering to Kresten's talk "Riak on Drugs", where he 
mentions schema evolution using read repair. Being on the same project, 
allow me to elaborate.


To my knowledge, there is no schema evolution strategy defined by either 
JSON or Protocol Buffers when dealing with distributed data. I.e. how to 
declare schema versions, and upgrade data in distributed data stores.
An XML Schema can specify a version attribute, or put different versions 
of a schema into different namespaces, which include dates or version 
numbers. But you probably don't want to use XML Schema for a number of 
reasons.


Protocol buffers provides a schema (.proto file), which can be compiled 
into serialization code for a plethora of languages. Including java, 
which we use in the health care system that we make for the Danish 
government. PB tries to be pragmatic about schema changes, which is nice 
- especially compared to the dreadful XML schemas and WSDL. You can add 
a new optional field to your .proto file, and still deserialize old data 
into the new schema. PB will barf if you deserialize fields not known in 
your .proto, or if "required" fields are missing (we make all PB fields 
"optional" to avoid this.)


You might as well use JSON or some other schema-defined serialization 
format. PB is very space efficient and fast to (de)serialize. On the 
other hand, JSON is easier to work with when it comes to Riak Map Reduce 
jobs. Using the schema evolution process below, you can even start out 
using JSON and then upgrade to for instance PB.


As Kresten mentions, we want to upgrade data to new schema versions 
using read repair. Our thoughts on how to do this, is to store either a 
header in the binary data or a metadata field on the Riak object with an 
id to the schema, specifying how the binary data was serialized. This 
schema id is read by the client, which determines if a newer schema 
version exists, converts the data to the new version and stores the data 
back.


Since we upgrade clients one at a time with no downtime, the entire 
change procedure would be something like this:


1) Make new schema version.
2) Upgrade all clients - one at a time - so they can read the new schema 
version, but still save data in the old version.

3) Enable clients to save data en the new schema version.

Data formatted in deprecated schemas, can be seen as a sort of entropy - 
something you want to remove to achieve consistency - and to make your 
clients simpler. Before we remove client support for the old schema 
version, we need to make sure that all data has been upgraded, so we 
need to rewrite the objects, that were not read repaired by normal daily 
operations. We would probably do this using a java batch job, which was 
fed all the keys.


4) Repair remaining keys.
5) Remove client support for old version schema.

If you like DomainBucket, which is part of the IRiak java client, you 
can still use it and have you java model in PB or whatever. Put you 
serialization code into a Converter like this:


 Converter personSerializer = new 
Converter() {


 @Override
 public IRiakObject fromDomain(PersonAggregate 
personAggregate, VClock vClock) throws ConversionException {

 String bucket = "person";
 String key = personAggregate.getKey();
 byte[] bytes = personAggregate.getBytes(); // Serialize 
to bytes using PB or whatever
 return RiakObjectBuilder.newBuilder(bucket, 
key).withValue(bytes).build();

 }

 @Override
 public PersonAggregate toDomain(IRiakObject riakObject) 
throws ConversionException {

 byte[] bytes = riakObject.getValue();
 return PersonAggregate.deserialize(riakObjectValue); // 
Deserialize to java

 }
 };

 DomainBucket personBucket = new 
DomainBucketBuilder(personBucket, 
PersonAggregate.class).withConverter().build();


- Rune

PS: I like the flexibility of your aggregate-root java model, and 
believe it will serialize nicely and efficiently into an Riak object.


--

Best regards / Venlig hilsen

\\*Rune Skou Larsen\\*
Trifork Public A/S / Team Riak
Margrethepladsen 4, 8000 Århus C, Denmark
Phone: +45 3160 2497 Skype: runeskoularsen twitter: @RuneSkouLarsen

On 24-07-2012 08:49, Tim Pedersen wrote:

Hi All,

I'm working on a Riak-based Java project that involves creating a 
central repository of data (in Riak) aggregated from a number of other 
databases (SQL). Right now the approach I'm taking is to build a set 
of 'aggregate-root' style Java classes (e.g. a Person) that has lots 
of aggregate/list classes hanging off it (e.g. KnownAddresses, 
Offences, Charges, etc).


I'm using the Java client and am currently simply relying on the 
out-of-the-box DomainBuckets and POJO/Jackson/JSON serialisation when 
storing and retrieving these objects in Riak.


This app is likely to undergo (re)development over the next few years 
- with plenty of changes to the Java class 'schemas', and thus a need 
to deal with different versions of java classes over time.


From what I can see the standard DomainBucket/JSON deserialisation 
relies on the target class not changing (is this right?)


I watched a video with Kresten Krab Thorup talking about the work with 
the Danish Health dept; in his talk he mentioned they used Protocol 
Buffers with a line about this enabling them to deal with versions?? 
I'm a n00b wrt Protocol Buffers - is this perhaps the way we should be 
handling serialisation and versioning - instead of DomainBuckets??


Has anyone else tackled the problem of versioning of 
schemas/classes/POJOs? What approaches have you taken (and did it work)?


Cheers,

Tim


---------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Tim Pedersen

Senior Developer
Information Technology Services
Department of Police and Emergency Management

47 Liverpool St, Hobart, Tasmania, 7000

Phone 03 6230 2465
Mobile 0428 336 670
Email tim.peder...@police.tas.gov.au 


----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
