---
title: "Re: Fun with Unicode"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-02-01T07:58:27-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg09962"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg09961"
author_name: "Anton"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-02-01T07:58:27-08:00
---


Adam, you should be able to write to any transport if you first
.encode('utf-8') the result there, right? ensure\\_ascii=False will feed
you unicode objects (if and only if there's something non-ASCII in the
input to .dumps). They of course will cause anything that attempts to
coerce them to a string to go wrong, as it'll attempt to do that by
encoding to ASCII.

On 1 February 2013 16:45, Adam Lindsay  wrote:
&gt; Anton, Sean,
&gt;
&gt; Anton brings up a pretty interesting problem.
&gt;
&gt; At first, I thought it might be easy to remedy with:
&gt;
&gt; import json
&gt; import functools
&gt; antonjson = functools.partial(json.dumps, ensure\\_ascii=False)
&gt;
&gt; from riak import RiakClient
&gt; R = RiakClient()
&gt; R.set\\_encoder('application/json', antonjson)
&gt;
&gt; …however, upon testing this out, it's seems likely that the underlying
&gt; transport channels use the default encoding, 'ascii,' and choke on the 8-bit
&gt; data we now pass it, in socket.py (for the HTTP client) or
&gt; protobuf.internal.type\\_checkers (for PBC).
&gt;
&gt; Maybe that's a suitable hint for Anton's further investigation, but I'll try
&gt; to spend some time with it to see what I can find, as well.
&gt;
&gt; As to the OP's question: Yes, you've summarized the state of affairs quite
&gt; nicely. IMHO it was a reasonable default (you can't be sure other Riak
&gt; clients are as good as Python at 8-bit/Unicode!), but the underlying
&gt; implementation definitely shows a bug that (again, IMHO) should and can be
&gt; fixed.
&gt; --
&gt; Adam Lindsay
&gt;
&gt; On Friday, 1 February 2013 at 14:27, Sean Cribbs wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Anton,
&gt;
&gt; I don't see any reason why this can't be fixed. However, since I'm not
&gt; familiar with the specifics of the JSON implementation, I'll need
&gt; assistance. Please open an issue or pull-request on the Python client:
&gt; https://github.com/basho/riak-python-client/issues. We are open to
&gt; major, breaking changes for the next release.
&gt;
&gt; On Fri, Feb 1, 2013 at 8:06 AM, Anton  wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Let's talk python and Unicode (yey!)
&gt;
&gt; The objects that I want to store will have non-ASCII strings in them.
&gt; Potentially a lot. How much is a lot? "Very many millions" should be a
&gt; good estimate.
&gt;
&gt; Now, the default behaviour for storing a python object (ok, a dict of
&gt; stuff), using the PBC transport is to pass them to json and encode
&gt; them. I'm ok with that, I like JSON and the fact that I can read out
&gt; an object in JSON, using a browser, helps a lot. It's really great for
&gt; developing project-specific tools, say debugging tools.
&gt;
&gt; But here is where the fun part starts. The JSON encoder in python is
&gt; not a simple thing, and takes a lot of parameters. And by default it
&gt; works. So well that people rarely look at what's going on. When you
&gt; look at what's going on, however, things get more entertaining.
&gt;
&gt; The JSON encoder works on unicode objects, not strings. When you pass
&gt; it unicode objects, it's happy. When you pass it strings, it decodes
&gt; them, using a specified encoding. By default this is set to 'utf-8'
&gt; which makes everything quite ok. So far so good. However, there's
&gt; another option - 'ensure\\_ascii'. This is set to True by default and it
&gt; means that the JSON encoder will spew out an ASCII-encoded string.
&gt; That is, in the result, every unicode code-point is encoded as \\u0123,
&gt; or a total of 6 bytes.
&gt;
&gt; Now, this is not good. For one, the JSON RFCs expect Unicode, encoded
&gt; using UTF-\\*. Also, even if much of the data will require 3bytes in
&gt; UTF-8, that's still only half the bytes that the python default would
&gt; take.
&gt;
&gt; Now, consider this elementary example. It already gives a significant
&gt; (in bytes) difference for a short string:
&gt; http://pastie.org/6011147
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Please tell me I'm not going crazy and all this is the state of
&gt; affairs and it is, in fact, wrong and can/should be fixed.
&gt;

&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt; Software Engineer
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; http://basho.com/
&gt;
