---
title: "Re: Simpler, many m/r phases, or complex, fewer m/r phases?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-03-14T19:26:28-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06963"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06962"
author_name: "Jonathan Langevin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-03-14T19:26:28-07:00
---


k, that's what I was afraid of (full value read from disk).
This is for a client lib for Riak, so I'll reconfigure it to combine the
logic down to single map/reduce phases. Luckily the logic in this case is
mostly non-complex, while custom m/r functionality would be sent per phase
specified by the application. The custom m/r phases would likely be more
complex logic, so that pretty much works itself out.

Thanks for the feedback!
\\*

 
 Jonathan Langevin
Manager, Information Technology
Loom Inc.
Wilmington, NC: (910) 241-0433 - jlange...@loomlearning.com -
www.loomlearning.com - Skype: intel352
\\*


On Wed, Mar 14, 2012 at 10:02 PM, Alexander Sicular wrote:

&gt; I would probably say complex/fewer MR phases but I guess it would depend
&gt; on the compute complexity of your functions (in order to take advantage of
&gt; parallelism/more compute cores). My reasoning is that every time you Map
&gt; you are reading the full value from disk. More Maps = more disk i/o. Not to
&gt; mention the erlang to js overhead if you are running js functions.
&gt;
&gt; Please report your findings!
&gt;
&gt; Best,
&gt;
&gt; -Alexander Sicular
&gt;
&gt; @siculars
&gt;
&gt; On Mar 14, 2012, at 6:16 PM, Jonathan Langevin wrote:
&gt;
&gt; What is better for performance in Riak?
&gt; \\*
&gt; More phases with simpler logic, or less phases with more complex logic?
&gt;
&gt; For instance, if I want to check 10 different fields of the result
&gt; objects, using 10 different functions, should I combine that all down into
&gt; 1-2 m/r phases, or run as 10 different m/r phases?
&gt;
&gt; I would think more phases would suggest that the workload could be
&gt; distributed across various nodes more easily, but few phases would mean
&gt; that the values wouldn't have to be processed as many times...
&gt;
&gt; 
&gt; Jonathan Langevin
&gt; Manager, Information Technology
&gt; Loom Inc.
&gt; Wilmington, NC: (910) 241-0433 - jlange...@loomlearning.com -
&gt; www.loomlearning.com - Skype: intel352
&gt; \\*
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

