---
title: "Riak Recap For May 16 - 17"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-05-18T17:25:11-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03366"
author_name: "Mark Phillips"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-05-18T17:25:11-07:00
---


Early Evening, Morning, Afternoon to All -

For today's Recap: Another production user, some Q & A from #riak, a
blog post, and more.

Enjoy.

Mark

Community Manager
Basho Technologies
wiki.basho.com
twitter.com/pharkmillups
------------------------------------


Riak Recap For May 16 - 17
====================

1) We added another production user to the wiki.

\\* Read a bit about why Voxer is running Riak and Riak Search here ---&gt;
http://wiki.basho.com/Who-is-Using-Riak.html#voxer

I would love to add another logo before the weekend arrives. Who else
out there should be on this page?

2) Q --- Is it legal to bind riak to a hostname instead of IP? i can't
seem to get a riak instance started using a hostname? (from nibblebot
via #riak)

 A --- Yes, it's legal but will incur the overhead of the lookup. If
you're talking about the HTTP/PBC interfaces, it's best to use IP
addresses, but for the node name, it's totally fine (and good) to use
a hostname.

3) Q --- Is it ok to change the Riak backend from Bitcask to multi
backend if I set Bitcask as the default? (from tohava via #riak )

 A --- As long as the data root is the same, it shouldn't be a problem.

4) Q --- Are there any php based projects of large(r) scale that use
riak? (from nash\\_ via #riak)

 Anyone running/building a large(r) scale Riak + php app?

5) I wrote a blog post on called "Two Anecdotes About Community From
JSConf and NodeConf." It's a bit less technical than what I usually
pass along, but I thought it was worth sharing nonetheless.

\\* Read here ---&gt; http://bit.ly/ieSQLG

6) A few new jobs to pass along:

\\* Federal Reserve Board is hiring Web App Developers in DC with Riak
(and Couch and Mongo) experience ---&gt; http://cb.com/khAcK5
\\* Lead Developer, Programmer in NYC ---&gt; http://bit.ly/kGtjhZ

