---
title: "Re: Scaling up or out"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-12-05T19:45:10-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg09445"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg09444"
author_name: "Sean Carey"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-12-05T19:45:10-08:00
---


Ken, 
Are your vms on different bare metal? Could they potentially be on the same 
bare metal? 

Are you seeing any io contention? 


Sean Carey
@densone


On Wednesday, December 5, 2012 at 20:41, Ken Perkins wrote:

&gt; Yes, we're thrashing on all of the boxes, due to disk access when looking 
&gt; through merge\\_index. It's not noisy neighbors, given how consistent the 
&gt; thrashing is. We had a box with a corrupted index (we had to remove 
&gt; merge\\_index and rebuild) and that machine instantly went to 0% thrashing. So 
&gt; we have a pretty good indication of the source.
&gt; 
&gt; The cost for 10 8GB VMs is roughly equivalent to 5 16GB ones.
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks for your input Michael!
&gt; 
&gt; Ken
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Wed, Dec 5, 2012 at 4:47 PM, Michael Johnson  (mailto:m...@mediatemple.net)&gt; wrote:
&gt; &gt; There are a lot of things that go into this, but I would tend to suggest in 
&gt; &gt; a hosted VM senario, upping the ram is likely the right solution.
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; You mention thrashing, but what is that thrashing coming from? I assume 
&gt; &gt; all the boxes are thrashing and not just one or two of them? Is it due to 
&gt; &gt; swapping or is it just the raw disk access? Maybe you logging too 
&gt; &gt; aggressively? 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; Perhaps your are suffering from a bad neighbor effect. If this is the 
&gt; &gt; case, increasing the amount of ram will likely put you on a physical host 
&gt; &gt; with few customers and thus you would be less likely to have a bad 
&gt; &gt; neighbor. 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; Cost-wise in the VM world, you might be better off adding a few nodes 
&gt; &gt; rather than increasing the ram in your existing vm's.
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; But then we are talking VMs and thus it should be fairly painless to 
&gt; &gt; experiment. I would try adding ram first and if that doesn't work, add a 
&gt; &gt; few nodes. Someone else my have a different opinion, but that is my two 
&gt; &gt; cents. 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; On Wed, Dec 5, 2012 at 4:33 PM, Ken Perkins  &gt; (mailto:k...@clipboard.com)&gt; wrote:
&gt; &gt; &gt; Hello all,
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; We're seeing enough thrashing and low-memory on our production ring that 
&gt; &gt; &gt; we've decided to upgrade our hardware. The real question is should we 
&gt; &gt; &gt; scale up or out.
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; Currently our ring is 512 partitions. We know that it's a sub-optimal 
&gt; &gt; &gt; size but we can't easily solve that now. We're currently running a 
&gt; &gt; &gt; search-heavy app on 5 8GB VMs. I'm debating between moving the VMs up to 
&gt; &gt; &gt; 16GB, or adding a few more 8GB VMs. 
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; Some of the talk in #riak has pushed me towards adding more machines 
&gt; &gt; &gt; (thus lowering the per node number of partitions) but I wanted to do a 
&gt; &gt; &gt; quick sanity check here with folks that it's better than scaling up my 
&gt; &gt; &gt; current machines. 
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; Thanks!
&gt; &gt; &gt; Ken Perkins
&gt; &gt; &gt; clipboard.com (http://clipboard.com)
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; &gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
&gt; &gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; 
 
&gt; 
