---
title: "Re: Searching and sorting with mapreduce or solr?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-05-02T17:30:20-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03188"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg03187"
author_name: "Odelon Miranda"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-05-02T17:30:20-07:00
---


Hi Alexander,

Thanks for you reply.

What would you suggest on using, the solr interface or the map-reduce?

What would be best to use when you are processing lets say 1 million
documents?

Thanks,

Odie

On Tue, May 3, 2011 at 7:13 AM,  wrote:

&gt; Riak m/r is a scan operation. Solr is an indexed operation. By definition
&gt; an indexed operation will be faster than a scan operation. Just something to
&gt; keep in mind.
&gt;
&gt; You also mention "search by field" but Riak is opaque to values so I will
&gt; just assume your values are json (not to say that you can't operate on non
&gt; json data).
&gt; Basically you are going to run a map function that has your filter in it.
&gt; And then pass those results to a reduce function that implements a sort.
&gt;
&gt; Your actual implementation will take advantage of features made available
&gt; by the client you use. I mainly use the nodejs javascript client, riakjs,
&gt; which has very good support for building m/r queries.
&gt;
&gt; I have two articles on my blog which may help you out.
&gt; http://siculars.posterous.com/tag/riak
&gt;
&gt; Cheers,
&gt; Alexander
&gt;
&gt; Sent from my Verizon Wireless BlackBerry
&gt;
&gt; -----Original Message-----
&gt; From: Odelon Miranda 
&gt; Sender: riak-users-boun...@lists.basho.com
&gt; Date: Tue, 3 May 2011 06:41:40
&gt; To: 
&gt; Subject: Searching and sorting with mapreduce or solr?
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;


-- 
We stretch out both of our arms...
Pass through the clouds, straight to the sky...
Even though we touched the Moon and the Mars...
We still cannot touch the TRUTH.
--- from the manga BLEACH
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

