---
title: "Re: Authentication and an example deploy script?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-04-11T22:29:22-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00000"
author_name: "Tyler Smart"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-04-11T22:29:22-07:00
---


Thank you Sean and Preston!

I will look into client certificate verification as the Riak server will be
on EC/2 but our application server is still Heroku. I saw over at 37 signals
that they had some cookbooks for chef that used ec/2 and a bunch of others.
I am wondering If I can modify their cookbooks to deploy Riak (maybe the
EC-2 one)

Tyler

On Sun, Apr 11, 2010 at 8:04 AM, Sean Cribbs  wrote:

&gt; As Preston says, we recommend putting a web-server in front of your Riak
&gt; machine when you need authentication. If you're using SSL to connect, you
&gt; could also use client certificate verification. In general, however, it
&gt; would be easiest to put your Riak machines and your application machines in
&gt; the same EC2 security group.
&gt;
&gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt; Developer Advocate
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; http://basho.com/
&gt;
&gt; On Apr 11, 2010, at 2:33 AM, Preston Marshall wrote:
&gt;
&gt; I haven't seen any authentication in Riak, they might expect you to to
&gt; throw a web server or something similar in front of it to handle
&gt; authentication. I'm sure Nginx can more than handle the job of
&gt; authentication.
&gt;
&gt; On Sun, Apr 11, 2010 at 1:30 AM, Tyler Smart wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi Riak users!
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; As a newbie, I am wondering what the best way to authenticate is? Let's
&gt;&gt; say I have a eroku server that will connect to the riak server over https.
&gt;&gt; How should the Riak node handle authentication such that only the heroku
&gt;&gt; server can access the data? Also, if we are deploying onto Amazon, do you
&gt;&gt; guys have any pre-built chef scripts I could study to get up to speed with
&gt;&gt; Riak deploys?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Sincerely,
&gt;&gt; Tyler
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

