---
title: "Re: Absolute consistency"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-01-11T08:57:10-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06237"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06236"
author_name: "Vishal Shah"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-01-11T08:57:10-08:00
---


To add to Ian's comment, for me personally, this specific characteristic is in 
fact a very important distinguishing feature of Riak vs other scalable KV 
systems. To me, this is what separates 

My understanding is that Riak borrows this from Dynamo which talks about 
"decentralization" - master nodes often times are a cause of bottlenecks and/or 
single point of failure for certain operations.

Vishal

On Jan 11, 2012, at 8:39 AM, Ian Plosker wrote:

&gt; Les,
&gt; 
&gt; In Riak, there is no single primary copy considered the canonical version. 
&gt; For each key, there will be N (3 by default) partitions responsible for 
&gt; storing the associated value. In effect, there are N primaries for any key. 
&gt; This is how Riak makes its availability guarantees, as well as why "absolute 
&gt; consistency" is difficult.
&gt; 
&gt; -- 
&gt; Ian Plosker 
&gt; Developer Advocate
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; On Tuesday, January 10, 2012 at 10:09 PM, Les Mikesell wrote:
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On Tue, Jan 10, 2012 at 8:52 PM, Justin Sheehy  wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; On Jan 10, 2012, at 9:42 PM, Les Mikesell wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; How do things like mongo and elasticsearch manage atomic operations
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; while still being redundant?
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Most such systems use some variant of primary copy replication, also known 
&gt;&gt;&gt; as master/slave replication.
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; That approach can provide consistency, but has much weaker availability 
&gt;&gt;&gt; properties.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Doesn't riak need some kind of partition owner/master concept to
&gt;&gt; control migration? And if it has that, why can't the client request
&gt;&gt; that an operation happens on the partition owner/master first for
&gt;&gt; things that need consistency?
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; Les Mikesell
&gt;&gt; lesmikes...@gmail.com
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

