---
title: "Re: Using Hybrid SSDs"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-03-01T10:22:09-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06820"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06819"
author_name: "Tryn Mirell"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-03-01T10:22:09-08:00
---


It also depends on what filesystem you're using. ZFS can use SSDs for the L2ARC 
cache, while having all your storage on slower drives. This gives you the 
benefit of SSDs, while still having lots of storage on platter drives. 

--
Tryn Mirell
Developer Advocate
t...@basho.com

On Thursday, March 1, 2012 at 12:17 PM, Jeremiah Peschka wrote:

&gt; This is a great question!
&gt; 
&gt; Hybrid SSDs like the Momentus XT line are great if you have a finite quantity 
&gt; of frequently accessed data - say you have a 500GB data set where 40GB is 
&gt; "hot" frequently accessed data and the other 460GB is cold, archival data. In 
&gt; this scenario, the Momentus XT is going to perform a lot like an SSD.
&gt; 
&gt; On the flip side, if your application is an application that either performs 
&gt; random reads throughout the entire data set OR your application is a write 
&gt; heavy application (e.g. append only log data) OR it's a mix of both, you 
&gt; won't see a lot of benefit from the Momentus XT line and you'd be better 
&gt; served spending your money getting faster drives.
&gt; 
&gt; If you need to use the whole drive, then you should spend the money on 
&gt; 15,000RPM drives. They'll perform far faster than the mix of SSD and 7200RPM 
&gt; drives that you find in the Momentus XT. If you don't need the whole drive, 
&gt; buy a smaller 15,000RPM drive.
&gt; ---
&gt; Jeremiah Peschka - Managing Director, Brent Ozar PLF, LLC
&gt; Microsoft SQL Server MVP
&gt; 
&gt; On Mar 1, 2012, at 9:59 AM, Lauren Clarke wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; &gt; Could anyone give some advice on the advisability of using hybrid SSD 
&gt; &gt; drives (eg: Seagate Momentus 750) for node storage? I know nothing about 
&gt; &gt; the parameters that might influence the decision between platter, SSD or 
&gt; &gt; these hybrids and would appreciate some guidance.
&gt; &gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; 
