---
title: "Riak Function Contrib"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-10-05T10:49:40-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01206"
author_name: "Mark Phillips"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-10-05T10:49:40-07:00
---


Hey All,

We are pushing to get some more resources out the door to help the
community better use Riak. Specifically, we are doing tons of work at
the moment to make MapReduce in Riak more robust and as simple to use
as possible. This is happening not only through code enhancement but
also through various documentation additions.

I'm not sure if you're all familiar with projects like Clojure Contrib
--- http://github.com/richhickey/clojure-contrib --- but we thought
this would be a great model for our own Contrib Library. So, we are
creating something called "Riak Function Contrib." When launched,
it'll be a home for community-contributed MapReduce and Pre- and
Post-Commit functions. The goal is to have Riak users submit code they
have used in their own apps and projects to build out a comprehensive
collection of functions such that, when a new user needs/wants to use
M/R or or Hook Functions in their app, they can browse the soon-to-be
vast number of functions that are already available and tested by
developers.

The code will live on GitHub and there will be a sister-site with an
overview of what Riak Function Contrib is all about. When the repo and
site are up and running, code submission will be as simple as forking
the repo and sending a pull request. Using the code from the repo will
be just as easy.

You'll notice I said "When launched..." It's not ready yet for several
reasons, one of which is because we wanted to put some code in there
at launch time. As I said, over time we are hooping it'll fill out
quite nicely, but we would like to have some functions in there to
start things off. So, if you've got MapReduce and/or Pre- and Post-
Commit functions that you are up for sharing with the community, I
want to hear from you. Shoot me an email and I'll give you the details
on how to get involved.

And of course, thanks for being a part of Riak.

Best,

Mark

Community Manager
Basho Technologies
wiki.basho.com
twitter.com/pharkmillups

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

