---
title: "Re: Avoiding false concurrency in Riak"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-02-22T02:50:08-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06680"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06677"
author_name: "Carlos Baquero"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-02-22T02:50:08-08:00
---

Thanks Jon and congratulations for the new release,

We will be available to fill any missing info and iterate on this. I the 
meantime we will be progressing in the port to the new version, so that we get 
a more precise idea of the implications.

Cheers,

Carlos

-----
Carlos Baquero
HASLab / INESC TEC,
Universidade do Minho,
Portugal

c...@di.uminho.pt
http://gsd.di.uminho.pt/cbm


On 22/02/2012, at 03:36, Jon Meredith wrote:

&gt; Thanks Carlos. We've been busy with the 1.1.0 release. I'll digest all you've 
&gt; written over the next couple days and get back to you. 
&gt; 
&gt; Cheers, Jon
&gt; 
&gt; On Mon, Feb 20, 2012 at 9:02 AM, Carlos Baquero  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; Hi,
&gt; 
&gt; Me and my colleagues are particularly interested on causality management
&gt; in optimistic replications settings, and since most other systems use simple
&gt; Last Writer Wins approaches, Riak is a good testbed as it allows exposing
&gt; concurrency to the clients, offering more options than a pure LWW interface.
&gt; With Riak 1.0 there were several changes to the way that causality is
&gt; tracked in the system. See http://wiki.basho.com/Vector-Clocks.html
&gt; 
&gt; The use of client ids in Riak's (pre 1.0) vector clocks, was recognized as a
&gt; scalability problem. However, it had the advantage that any node could
&gt; coordinate a Put request. Now in Riak (post 1.0), there is at most one entry
&gt; in vector clocks per server node, as client ids are no longer used, but
&gt; instead the server node id is used. One change that this required is that
&gt; now requests must be forwarded to a node hosting the replica.
&gt; 
&gt; (Here we use the term vector clock, but version vector would be more
&gt; appropriate in this data dependency context. More info in
&gt; http://haslab.wordpress.com/2011/07/08/version-vectors-are-not-vector-clocks/)
&gt; 
&gt; Riak (post 1.0) is using an ingenious solution to register updates while
&gt; having (at most) only one entry per replica node (a server node holding
&gt; a replica).
&gt; 
&gt; From what we could check from the new code, we can construct this example:
&gt; Suppose that we are in node A (of a two node system) and have a data item
&gt; with value "Mon" and version (A:4,B:2). We can see this one sibling as
&gt; (A:4,B:2)"Mon".
&gt; 
&gt; If a client reads this context and value (in a Get) and writes some new
&gt; value "Tue" to node A, the node can detect that it is evolving the current
&gt; installed version (as it gets the current vector) and change the state to
&gt; (again a single sibling) (A:5,B:2)"Tue", where the local counter was
&gt; advanced by 1. Now, if another (concurrent) client has also read
&gt; (A:4,B:2)"Mon" and is now Putting "Sun", the node detects concurrency (the
&gt; vector clock from the client is no longer the current one) and now registers
&gt; a second sibling, becoming (A:6,B:2)"Tue""Sun".
&gt; 
&gt; Now if we are lucky, some client will eventually read this two-sibling state
&gt; and write back, say "Sat", (with no other concurrent client interleaving)
&gt; and one gets again a single sibling state (A:7,B:2)"Sat".
&gt; 
&gt; Till now everything looks fine.
&gt; 
&gt; However other runs are problematic. Again we start with (A:4,B:2)"Mon" and
&gt; evolve to (A:5,B:2)"Tue" as before. Suppose that a client X reads this
&gt; state. Next, the system evolves as before and becomes (A:6,B:2)"Tue""Sun".
&gt; Now if client X submits a put with "Wed", Riak will see that (A:5,B:2) is
&gt; not the current version (A:6,B:2) and thus registers a third sibling and
&gt; evolves to (A:7,B:2)"Tue""Sun""Wed". However in terms of causality "Wed" is
&gt; not created concurrently with "Tue". In fact "Wed" succeeds "Tue" and the
&gt; state should not have the three siblings depicted, but only two: "Sun" and
&gt; "Wed".
&gt; 
&gt; This effect can be described as the creation of false concurrency, and when
&gt; frequent, it leads to an artificial growth in the state and more
&gt; reconciliation work at the client level. It is the same undesired situation
&gt; that can occur as a consequence of pruning.
&gt; 
&gt; One aspect that may be a bit scary is that in the current Riak the number of
&gt; falsely concurrent siblings is not bounded. This is the case because a Put
&gt; by client X only simplifies siblings if there was no other Put (for the same
&gt; key, coordinated by the same server) since the time client X did the Get;
&gt; otherwise the Put will add the value to the current set of siblings. This
&gt; means that for highly contended keys, specially if the get-calculate-put
&gt; cycle takes some time, it may happen that the set of siblings keeps growing
&gt; indefinitely (if clients keep looping on that get-calculate-put cycle). As
&gt; in this case the number of siblings returned is increasing, it will make
&gt; clients take more time to resolve conflicts and calculate the new value,
&gt; increasing latency and reducing the chances for an opportunity that some
&gt; client can perform a get-calculate-put with no interleaving from other
&gt; client. I.e., we have a positive feedback loop, with undesirable consequences.
&gt; 
&gt; In the past year, myself and colleagues have been working in a mechanism
&gt; that overcomes this. We had some talks with the Riak team and at the time
&gt; one of the drawbacks was the need to re-direct all puts to a node that had
&gt; the replica. Now, Riak is much closer to the required architecture, so we
&gt; would like to share more broadly our proposal and see if it can be useful to
&gt; the community. One of the changes needed is to tag each sibling with an
&gt; appropriate vector (a "special" version vector with one additional entry)
&gt; and not use a single vector for the whole set of siblings. Each sibling
&gt; already has support for storing its own metadata, so the support is possibly
&gt; already there.
&gt; 
&gt; We named the causality tracking mechanism as Dotted Version Vectors, and its
&gt; most current description
&gt; (http://gsd.di.uminho.pt/members/vff/dotted-version-vectors-2012.pdf) also
&gt; includes some performance evaluation in Riak 0.13, that this community might
&gt; find interesting to check. Currently we are in the process of modifying the 
&gt; current
&gt; Riak implementation to use it, now a much simpler task.
&gt; 
&gt; The mechanism code is available in
&gt; https://github.com/ricardobcl/Dotted-Version-Vectors
&gt; 
&gt; Although these "advanced" techniques add some additional complexity, we hope 
&gt; that
&gt; overcoming false concurrency will be a good tradeoff.
&gt; 
&gt; Regards,
&gt; 
&gt; The DVV team,
&gt; 
&gt; Carlos Baquero
&gt; Nuno Preguiça
&gt; Paulo Almeida
&gt; Ricardo Gonçalves
&gt; Victor Fonte
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; -----
&gt; Carlos Baquero
&gt; HASLab / INESC TEC,
&gt; Universidade do Minho,
&gt; Portugal
&gt; 
&gt; c...@di.uminho.pt
&gt; http://gsd.di.uminho.pt/cbm
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; -- 
&gt; Jon Meredith
&gt; Platform Engineering Manager
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; jmered...@basho.com
&gt; 
