---
title: "Re: Storing relationship data"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-12-30T15:47:44-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01861"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg01860"
author_name: "Justin Sheehy"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-12-30T15:47:44-08:00
---


Hi, Bryan.

The link data is embedded in the riak\\_object metadata, so you can
easily observe it from outside Riak even when not performing
link-walking queries.

To see this in action, check out the "Link" headers when using the
HTTP interface.

-Justin

On Thu, Dec 30, 2010 at 6:36 PM, Bryan Nagle
 wrote:
&gt; Hi,
&gt; For the project that I am currently working on, we are trying to decide on
&gt; the best way to store relational data in riak.  At first glance, the obvious
&gt; choice looks to be links, however one of our requirements is that this
&gt; relationship information has to be sent to a client along with actual data.
&gt;  The client has to be able to map the relationships between the
&gt; data solely from the information it receives while being completely outside
&gt; of Riak.
&gt; So, I was wondering if anyone had any suggestions?  We are considering
&gt; either encapsulating our relationship data within the riak store itself (in
&gt; the value tied to the key), or using riak links.  However, if we use riak
&gt; links, then we have to convert those links into data that the client can
&gt; receive & understand when sending data, and then convert the data we get
&gt; back from the client into riak links;  we are wondering if this extra step
&gt; is worth implementing this kind of a translation.
&gt; Bryan Nagle
&gt; Liquid Analytics
&gt; bryan.na...@liquidanalytics.com
&gt;
