---
title: "Re: riaksearch memory growth issues"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-05-27T18:44:59-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03467"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg03466"
author_name: "Gordon Tillman"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-05-27T18:44:59-07:00
---


Gilbert I will do that and post the results. Have restarted the cluster but it 
is really easy to reproduce the issue. 

Thanks!

--gordon


On May 27, 2011, at 20:10 , Gilbert Glåns wrote:

&gt; Gordon,
&gt; Could you try:
&gt; 
&gt; erlang:process\\_info(list\\_to\\_pid("&lt;0.16614.32&gt;"), [messages,
&gt; current\\_function, initial\\_call, links, memory, status]).
&gt; 
&gt; in a riak search console for one/some of those mailboxes and share the
&gt; results? I am curious to see if you are having the same systemic
&gt; memory consumption I am experiencing.
&gt; 
&gt; Gilbert
&gt; 
&gt; On Fri, May 27, 2011 at 5:15 PM, Gordon Tillman  wrote:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Howdy Gang,
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; We are having a bit of an issue with our 3-node riaksearch cluster. What is 
&gt;&gt; happing is this:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Cluster is up and running. We start testing our application against it. As 
&gt;&gt; the application runs the erlang process consumes more and more memory 
&gt;&gt; without ever releasing it.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; In trying to investigate the issue we ran the riaksearch-admin cluster\\_info 
&gt;&gt; command. It appears that the bulk of this memory is being consumed by a 
&gt;&gt; bunch of mailboxes.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; I have posted both the output of the cluster\\_info command and the app.config 
&gt;&gt; from one of the nodes here:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; https://gist.github.com/996419
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; I would be very grateful if someone from Basho would take a look at the 
&gt;&gt; cluster\\_info and see if they can spot anything obvious.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Each machine in the cluster has an 8-core Xeon and 16GB RAM. I believe all 
&gt;&gt; of the platform details, etc., are in the cluster\\_info dump.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Many thanks,
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; --gordon
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com


\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

