---
title: "Re: NoSQL combinations - what works best?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-08-09T09:23:54-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04286"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04285"
author_name: "Chad DePue"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-08-09T09:23:54-07:00
---


We always use Redis w/ Riak and have had great results.

Chad DePue
inakanetworks.com - development consulting | skype cdepue | @chaddepue
+1 206.866.5707

On Tue, Aug 9, 2011 at 1:13 PM, Jonathan Langevin &lt;
jlange...@loomlearning.com&gt; wrote:

&gt; I'm already a huge fan of Riak after the short time that I've worked with
&gt; it, but a common concern I've seen is regarding performance.
&gt; To continue to take advantage of it's data persistence features, powerful
&gt; m/r functionality, etc, but to gain performance, I'm thinking of pairing my
&gt; application with another (throwaway) nosql solution that would exist to
&gt; provide greater read performance.
&gt;
&gt; This inspiration comes from seeing others using MongoDB + MySQL, for
&gt; instance. I'm thinking using something such as Memcache, or 
&gt; Membase (though
&gt; I haven't checked into setup requirements), may be a good option, as I'm
&gt; already accustomed to caching with Memcache from PHP, but I've not had any
&gt; large-scale experience with Memcache yet.
&gt; Ideally anything that is lightweight, easy to roll out, and extremely fast.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Before I venture down this road, are there any comments on this approach?
&gt; Any suggestions or recommendations?
&gt; Or are there speedy solutions available for Riak already?
&gt;
&gt; 
&gt; \\* Jonathan Langevin
&gt; Systems Administrator
&gt; Loom Inc.
&gt; Wilmington, NC: (910) 241-0433 - jlange...@loomlearning.com -
&gt; www.loomlearning.com - Skype: intel352 \\*
&gt;
&gt;

