---
title: "Re: crash after single insert"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-05-07T00:45:59-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03276"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg03274"
author_name: "Nico Meyer"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-05-07T00:45:59-07:00
---

Hi Gary,

I had this problem before a few times.
It is cause by leftover files named 'bitcask.write.lock'. Normally theey 
should be cleared automatically after a crash. They contain the OS 
process ID of the erlang VM which created them, and if there is no such 
process bitcask deletes the file.
I believe that there might exists another process with the same process 
ID as the old riak process. Did you reboot the machine by any chance? 
since then the PIDs start counting up from 1 again.


The easy fix for your problem is to delete all bitcask.write.lock files 
in your bitcask directory (e.g. 'rm /var/lib/bitcask/\\*/bitcask.write.lock').
If you are curious you could check if my hunch is right beforehand. Just 
look at the contents of any of these files (which looks like: PID 
/path/to/current/bitcaskfile/123456.bitcask.data), and see if there is 
another process with the PID.


Cheers Nico


On 06.05.2011 23:08, Gary William Flake wrote:

Now trying 500 lines.
-- GWF

On May 6, 2011, at 2:05 PM, Gary William Flake wrote:


Resending with only the last 1000 lines from the log file, so that the list 
server doesn't reject it.

Any insights would be greatly appreciated.

-- GWF


On May 6, 2011, at 1:48 PM, Gary William Flake wrote:


Today, after running fine for a couple of weeks, I had erlang crash, making it 
so that riaksearch can only do reads but no writes.

Nothing has changed with the code and it had been running fine for weeks 
without a problem. The sasl-error.log is attached.

Any ideas what's going on?

Thanks,
-- GWF
