---
title: "Re: Strange spike"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-05-31T13:22:29-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07587"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg07586"
author_name: "Nam Nguyen"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-05-31T13:22:29-07:00
---


Hi Seth,

Yes, I am using the default config.

Is it safe to change these values and restart riak?

Nam

On May 31, 2012, at 11:24 AM, Seth Benton wrote:

&gt; Hey,
&gt; 
&gt; Apologies if this is the wrong place for this, but I just updated the 
&gt; eLevelDB wiki page to mention randomization of the write buffer length (via 
&gt; setting write\\_buffer\\_size\\_min and write\\_buffer\\_size\\_max). Before there was 
&gt; no mention of these config parameters. Perhaps people were just using 
&gt; levelDB's 4MB default buffer size, causing all the vnodes to compact at the 
&gt; same time? Or are there default write\\_buffer\\_size\\_min and 
&gt; write\\_buffer\\_size\\_max parameters under the hood?
&gt; 
&gt; http://wiki.basho.com/LevelDB.html
&gt; 
&gt; P.S. Mathew V is getting back to me shortly on changes to this page due to 
&gt; changes in 1.2.
&gt; 
&gt; Seth
&gt; (Tech Writer)
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Thu, May 31, 2012 at 9:26 AM, Nam Nguyen  wrote:
&gt; Hi Sean,
&gt; 
&gt; You are right. At first I thought it was localized to that one particular 
&gt; node. Now others are also exhibiting the same symptom.
&gt; 
&gt; I am putting in another node.
&gt; 
&gt; Cheers,
&gt; Nam
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On May 30, 2012, at 11:23 PM, Sean Cribbs wrote:
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Nam,
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; The LevelDB storage backend has a known issue where compaction can stall a 
&gt;&gt; heavily-loaded node for a long time (we've seen 60 seconds or more in 
&gt;&gt; production clusters). We're very sorry about this, but an improvement will 
&gt;&gt; be available in the next release. In the meantime, DO NOT make the node 
&gt;&gt; leave the cluster - this will only make things worse! It might be worth 
&gt;&gt; adding another node to the cluster, but I suggest you wait until the node 
&gt;&gt; finishes compaction.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On Wed, May 30, 2012 at 10:43 PM, Nam Nguyen  wrote:
&gt;&gt; Hi,
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; My 5-node cluster exhibits a strange spike on one particular node.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Overall, the mean get time is about 1ms. This node occasionally shoots up to 
&gt;&gt; 40ms.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; During those times, %iowait is still the same as it is before the spike. No 
&gt;&gt; error. Console log shows many lines like the below, which I don't think 
&gt;&gt; relevant to the spike.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 2012-05-30 21:29:50.591 [info] 
&gt;&gt; &lt;0.72.0&gt;@riak\\_core\\_sysmon\\_handler:handle\\_event:85 monitor long\\_gc &lt;0.938.0&gt; 
&gt;&gt; [{initial\\_call,{riak\\_core\\_vnode,init,1}},{almost\\_current\\_function,{gen\\_fsm,loop,7}},{message\\_queue\\_len,0}]
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; [{timeout,185},{old\\_heap\\_block\\_size,0},{heap\\_block\\_size,2584},{mbuf\\_size,0},{stack\\_size,55},{old\\_heap\\_size,0},{heap\\_size,804}]
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; The cluster is set up uniformly. Ubuntu 64bit, m2.2xlarge instance. Riak 
&gt;&gt; 1.1.2 with LevelDB backend.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; What would be the best course of actions for me?
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; I plan to:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; - riak-admin leave on that node
&gt;&gt; - set up new instance
&gt;&gt; - riak-admin reip the new instance
&gt;&gt; - riak-admin join it to the cluster
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Cheers,
&gt;&gt; Nam
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; -- 
&gt;&gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt;&gt; Software Engineer
&gt;&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt;&gt; http://basho.com/
&gt;&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; 

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

