---
title: "Re: Builder Version Requirement Problem in Ruby Riak Client"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-09-19T12:48:08-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04782"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04774"
author_name: "Keith Bennett"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-09-19T12:48:08-07:00
---


Sean -

I just looked more into this, and it turns out that this was fixed, just not in 
a version that I got with a gem install. I closed the issue with this comment:

"This was fixed in commit #086e917e67002c99fb10045b37473b8813bc1fb9 on May 13, 
2011 by jackdempsey."

When do you think this might be available with a gem install?

By the way, I've been experiencing some weirdness when trying to gem install 
riak-client today. For example, this on my Linux VM:

&gt;gem install riak-client
ERROR: While executing gem ... (NoMethodError)
 undefined method `call' for nil:NilClass

&gt;gem install ripple 
ERROR: While executing gem ... (NoMethodError)
 undefined method `call' for nil:NilClass

&gt;gem install nokogiri
Fetching: nokogiri-1.5.0.gem (100%)
Building native extensions. This could take a while...
Successfully installed nokogiri-1.5.0
1 gem installed

Also, I had this problem as well, on my Mac:

{ % }: gem install riak-client 
 19.Sep.11 15.25
Fetching: riak-client-0.9.7.gem (100%)
Successfully installed riak-client-0.9.7
1 gem installed

{ % }: gem list riak 
 19.Sep.11 15.26
Invalid gemspec in 
[/Users/kbennett/.rvm/gems/ree-1.8.7-2011.03/specifications/riak-client-0.9.7.gemspec]:
 Illformed requirement ["# 0.3.2"]

The .gemspec file had this in it:

 s.add\\_dependency(%q, ["# 
0.3.2"])


Thanks,
Keith

On Sep 19, 2011, at 12:05 PM, Sean Cribbs wrote:

&gt; Keith,
&gt; 
&gt; Are you using bundler to manage your dependencies? It should resolve that for 
&gt; you. That said, I'm open to fixing the gemspec such that you don't run into 
&gt; that problem (or requiring &gt;= 3). Please file an issue on the github 
&gt; tracker: https://github.com/seancribbs/ripple/issues
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; 
&gt; -- 
&gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt; Developer Advocate
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; http://www.basho.com/
&gt; 

