---
title: "Re: Riak Adoption - What can we do better?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-04-19T17:38:33-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07252"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg07249"
author_name: "Mark Phillips"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-04-19T17:38:33-07:00
---


Awesome feedback. Much appreciated.

For those of you just joining us, here's the list of suggestions I've
received so far (off and on-list responses). If there's a number next to
the item, it means it was suggested more than once.

Keep it coming. (I'm going to hold off on addressing each of these for the
moment.)

Mark
-------

Riak Adoption Suggestions:

\\* "Official/advanced" book or more official best practices resources (5)
\\* More technical blog posts from the basho team
\\* Meetups in the EU (BashoChats)
\\* Virtual Riak Hackathon/Coding competition of sorts
\\* Client Work
\\* Add PB Interface to PHP Client
\\* Mature C/C++ Client
\\* Add MultiDC Repl to OSS Riak
\\* Short Screencasts (2)
\\* Installation
\\* Usage via curl
 \\* Step by step with app.config
\\* Search
\\* Setting up and index
 \\* Querying
\\* Analyzers
\\* Secondary indexes
\\* Faster docs updates and/or some cross references within code and docs
\\* Docs (3)
\\* Use Case Tutorials
\\* Blog
 \\* e-commerce shop
\\* forum
\\* social network
 \\* Session storage
\\* User/Meta Data storage
\\* Notifications/Messaging
 \\* Data modeling
\\* Examples
\\* Scenarios
\\* Riak Workbench - something that actually lets you "look at your data" (a
la Futon)


2012/4/19 Brian Knox 

&gt; An officially supported first class C and C++ api! I know I've harped on
&gt; that one on the mailing list and twitter before - and releasing the alpha
&gt; code that was available was a start.. so please know it was appreciated.
&gt; However, if C / C++ were, today, a fully supported reliable client library
&gt; I'd be testing Riak for serious consideration right now... and I want to be
&gt; able to do that. I like riak. :)
&gt;
&gt; Brian
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

