---
title: "Re: innostore performance tuning"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-08-30T09:34:41-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04510"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04508"
author_name: "David Koblas"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-08-30T09:34:41-07:00
---


Yes - but the thought of sorting 800M records which are all about 8k in 
size is a little daunting... Something like a 6TB sort... Plus it 
doesn't answer the ongoing insert problem, which is 20 keys/sec isn't 
functional.


--david

On 8/30/11 9:27 AM, Kresten Krab Thorup wrote:

If you can insert the objects in ascending key order, then innostore will be 
much faster than a random insert.

Mobile: + 45 2343 4626 | Skype: krestenkrabthorup | Twitter: @drkrab
Trifork A/S | Margrethepladsen 4 | DK- 8000 Aarhus C | Phone : +45 8732 8787 | 
www.trifork.com

Trifork organizes the world class conference on software development: GOTO 
Aarhus - check it out!

[cid:part1.09040606.08080401@trifork.com]

On Aug 30, 2011, at 6:14 PM, David Koblas wrote:

I'm currently working on importing a very large dataset (800M) into Riak and 
running into some serious performance problems. Hopefully this is just 
configuration issues and nothing deeper...

Hardware -
 \\* 8 proc box
 \\* 32 Gb ram
 \\* 5TB disk - RAID10

Have a cluster of 4 for these boxes all running riak - riak configuration 
options that are different from stock:

 \\* Listening on all IP address "0.0.0.0"
 \\* {storage\\_backend, riak\\_kv\\_innostore\\_backend},
 \\* innostore section - {buffer\\_pool\\_size, 17179869184}, %% 16GB
 \\* innostore section - {flush\\_method, "O\\_DIRECT"}

What I see is that the performance of my import script runs at about 200...300 
keys per/second for keys that it's seen recently (e.g. re-runs) then drops to 
20ish keys per/sec for new keys.
STATS: 1000 keys handled in 3 seconds 250.75 keys/sec
STATS: 1000 keys handled in 3 seconds 258.20 keys/sec
STATS: 1000 keys handled in 4 seconds 240.11 keys/sec
STATS: 1000 keys handled in 5 seconds 177.63 keys/sec
STATS: 1000 keys handled in 4 seconds 246.26 keys/sec
STATS: 1000 keys handled in 5 seconds 184.79 keys/sec
STATS: 1000 keys handled in 5 seconds 195.95 keys/sec
STATS: 1000 keys handled in 47 seconds 21.02 keys/sec
STATS: 1000 keys handled in 44 seconds 22.63 keys/sec
STATS: 1000 keys handled in 42 seconds 23.64 keys/sec
STATS: 1000 keys handled in 43 seconds 22.88 keys/sec
STATS: 1000 keys handled in 45 seconds 22.12 keys/sec
STATS: 1000 keys handled in 43 seconds 22.83 keys/sec
STATS: 1000 keys handled in 43 seconds 23.11 keys/sec
Of course with 800M records to import a performance of 20 keys/sec is not 
useful, plus as time goes on having an insert rate at that level is going to be 
problematic.

Questions -
 Is there additional things to change for imports and datasets on this scale?
 Is there a way to get additional debugging to see where the performance 
issues are?

Thanks,
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com




\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

