---
title: "Re: Is Riak the right software for me?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-03-04T09:01:10-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06862"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06859"
author_name: "Philip"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-03-04T09:01:10-08:00
---


A memory based caching layer will be added to the frontends so the hot
files won't really be a problem. I just mentioned it because the
memory layer might fail and result in increased use of the data
source.

However, I am still not sure if it is possible to use MapReduce to get
a ordered list of the last accessed objects within a bucket. And the
vclock consistency check shouldn't be performed for certain requests.
I don't update any items and if so it wouldn't be a problem if an
outdated version would be served for a short period of time. It simply
consumes too much ressources if you are dealing with larger objects.

Am 4. März 2012 17:08 schrieb Paul Armstrong :
&gt; On 04/03/2012, at 2:40, Philip  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; I am looking for a software to host millions of files in the order of
&gt;&gt; 2-20MB for web serving. A few (~5%) files are "hot" and accessed
&gt;&gt; heavily but most of the files are cold. The system is going to work
&gt;&gt; like a big cache and therefore I need to make sure that the cluster
&gt;&gt; won't go out of space while new files are beeing added. I'd like to
&gt;&gt; store the last time a file was accessed and delete the least accessed
&gt;&gt; files to make sure there is always 20-30% free space in the cluster.
&gt;&gt; This system is currently spread across alot of different standalone
&gt;&gt; servers and serves a few gbit of bandwidth.
&gt;
&gt; Couchbase is probably a better solution for your needs (let it eject things 
&gt; based on LRU). Another option is to have memcache in front of Riak so your 
&gt; hot objects are fast and kicked by LRU and you have a large, replicable store 
&gt; behind it.

