---
title: "Re: This sure looks like a bug...?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-04-18T22:35:19-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03091"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg03084"
author_name: "Woody Peterson"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-04-18T22:35:19-07:00
---


On Apr 18, 2011, at 7:46 PM, Ben Tilly wrote:

&gt;&gt; Given the non-atomic nature of reads and writes in Riak, it is likely
&gt;&gt; that neither of the two clients that wrote that data was in any way
&gt;&gt; aware of the existence of the other write. This makes your suggestion
&gt;&gt; of escalating to the user impossible. And there is no particular
&gt;&gt; reason to believe that the third user to come along will necessarily
&gt;&gt; know anything either.

Thanks for asking this, I thought the same thing and I've been meaning to ask 
the list what the response to this problem is. 

On Apr 18, 2011, at 8:05 PM, Sean Cribbs wrote:

&gt; Sorry for being dismissive, I do understand what you're after. I'm just 
&gt; saying that if your application needs those semantics, build them in -- don't 
&gt; expect Riak's vector clocks to do the work for you.


It's not an unreasonable question given Riak's positioning (write-available 
key-value store with conflict \\*detection\\* and document support). A lot of 
people, myself included, are new to these types of datastores (vector clocks in 
particular) and it takes a while to understand what the different options 
provide. For example, Riak is listed right next to CouchDB in the wikipedia 
definition of multiversion concurrency control 
(http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multiversion\\_concurrency\\_control). Anyone coming 
from an understanding of couch and/or is looking to get document conflict 
resolution via MVCC might make incorrect assumptions about what Riak provides. 

&gt; Keep a list of the most recent "change" events either in that object or 
&gt; alongside, or keep a copy of the last-seen version in your object -- whatever 
&gt; works to make those kinds of merges possible.


Thanks for clarifying :) The docs advertise vector clocks as a solution to 
detect conflicts with the goal of passing them up to the user, but it took me a 
while to come up with the options I had for helping the user with the conflict 
(standard approaches seem to take a slightly new light when your document is 
always write-able :)

If anyone's interested in Couch's experience and/or wants to play with adding 
document conflict resolution to their Riak, 
https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/COUCHDB-988 is a must-read.

On Apr 18, 2011, at 9:01 PM, Eric Moritz wrote:

&gt; There's a little demo app that was written by someone at Basho that
&gt; demostrates a way to accomplish what you're talking about.
&gt; 
&gt; http://forms.basho.com/riak-in-action-wriaki-p/

Version control needs conflict resolution, but ex. the couch ticket I 
referenced additionally mentions pruning strategies and tradeoffs; a relevant 
part of conflict resolution, but not version control. You might have meant it 
as a good starting/reference point, but since in previous emails it seems as 
though his problem was misunderstood, I want to make sure to acknowledge that 
he's talking about optimal strategies for \\*just\\* conflict resolution.

Thanks all, happy to see this get discussed.

-Woody

(PS - sorry Sean for sending this to you twice, my reply-all habits depend 
entirely on whatever mailing list I'm frequenting. I do prefer non-mangling 
lists such as this :)

On Apr 18, 2011, at 8:05 PM, Sean Cribbs wrote:

&gt; Sorry for being dismissive, I do understand what you're after. I'm just 
&gt; saying that if your application needs those semantics, build them in -- don't 
&gt; expect Riak's vector clocks to do the work for you. Keep a list of the most 
&gt; recent "change" events either in that object or alongside, or keep a copy of 
&gt; the last-seen version in your object -- whatever works to make those kinds of 
&gt; merges possible.
&gt; 
&gt; Interestingly, multiple people have explored the SCM-on-top-of-Riak thing, so 
&gt; I know it's doable; the key difference there is that multiple, independently 
&gt; written objects are used to represent the history of a single conceptual 
&gt; "object". Once written, nothing is overwritten, only new objects are created.
&gt; 
&gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt; Developer Advocate
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; http://basho.com/
&gt; 
&gt; On Apr 18, 2011, at 10:46 PM, Ben Tilly wrote:
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; I'm not missing the point you think I am. Riak already has the
&gt;&gt; ability to store more than one value for a key/value pair. I'd like
&gt;&gt; an option - possibly named something new, that used this to store a
&gt;&gt; limited amount of history so that clients could be presented with a
&gt;&gt; common ancestor when that was required.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; In the case that I gave you, if the common ancestor is:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; {
&gt;&gt; "name": "Jane Doe",
&gt;&gt; "occupation": "secretary"
&gt;&gt; }
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; then a standard three-way merge would say that she got married and the
&gt;&gt; correct result should be:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; {
&gt;&gt; "name": "Jane Blow",
&gt;&gt; "husband": "Joe Blow",
&gt;&gt; "occupation": "n/a"
&gt;&gt; }
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; while if the common ancestor is:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; {
&gt;&gt; "name": "Jane Blow",
&gt;&gt; "husband": "Joe Blow",
&gt;&gt; "occupation": "n/a"
&gt;&gt; }
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; then a standard 3-way merge would say that she dumped the jerk and got
&gt;&gt; a job resulting in:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; {
&gt;&gt; "name": "Jane Doe",
&gt;&gt; "occupation": "secretary"
&gt;&gt; }
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Without the common ancestor you know what changed, but not which
&gt;&gt; direction the changes are going, and so have no sane way to resolve
&gt;&gt; the conflict.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Given the non-atomic nature of reads and writes in Riak, it is likely
&gt;&gt; that neither of the two clients that wrote that data was in any way
&gt;&gt; aware of the existence of the other write. This makes your suggestion
&gt;&gt; of escalating to the user impossible. And there is no particular
&gt;&gt; reason to believe that the third user to come along will necessarily
&gt;&gt; know anything either.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; (Besides, I spent enough years maintaining batch systems to be wary of
&gt;&gt; escalating to users at the drop of a hat. The "user" may well be a
&gt;&gt; complete moron on autopilot.)
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On Mon, Apr 18, 2011 at 7:01 PM, Sean Cribbs  wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt; I think you're missing a key point here, and that is that the vector clock 
&gt;&gt;&gt; doesn't store copies of the \\*values\\*, only the individual "touches" of 
&gt;&gt;&gt; identified clients. I'm not sure what computing the common ancestor is 
&gt;&gt;&gt; going to give you if you don't have the value. Vector clocks are 
&gt;&gt;&gt; essentially opaque to clients.
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; That said, I think the use-case you gave is one that can clearly bubble up 
&gt;&gt;&gt; to the user, e.g. "Someone else changed this record while you were editing 
&gt;&gt;&gt; it. Can you resolve the differences?" (Give the other person's name 
&gt;&gt;&gt; perhaps, highlight the fields that are different.)
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Developer Advocate
&gt;&gt;&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://basho.com/
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; On Apr 18, 2011, at 9:12 PM, Ben Tilly wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Riak's small\\_vclock, big\\_vclock, young\\_vclock, and old\\_vclock
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; parameters already give control over pruning behavior. If there isn't
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; enough history to compute a common ancestor, then return nothing for
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; the common ancestor.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; The use case here really isn't an SCM. The use case is when two
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; clients get simultaneous (within, say, 50 ms) requests to write to the
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; same object. When a third one tries to read the data 5s later, it
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; would be nice to have a way to figure out what to do. For this use
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; case you can limit the amount of history quite severely without loss.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Let's take a practical example of conflicting data structures:
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; {
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; "name": "Jane Doe",
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; "occupation": "n/a"
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; },
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; {
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; "name": "Jane Blow",
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; "husband": "Joe Blow",
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; "occupation": "secretary"
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; }
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; What should it be resolved to? Perhaps Jane just got divorced and
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; went to work as a secretary. Or she could have gotten married and
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; left her job. If you give me the common ancestor I can tell which
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; scenario to believe. Without it I can only guess badly. I don't want
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; to keep a history here. I want to resolve the discrepancy the next
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; time I see it (and log it somewhere important if I can't resolve it).
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; On Mon, Apr 18, 2011 at 5:38 PM, Sean Cribbs  wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Yes, but vector clocks are for resolution of race-conditions and network 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; partitions, not to provide an SCM history. Imagine how much space would 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; be consumed by the history long enough to disambiguate an object that has 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; been updated normally 1000 times, followed by one bad client that decides 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; write to it without fetching the vector clock first.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Coda Hale put it well in his talk at the recent Riak Meetup: your data 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; needs to be logically monotonic so that writes (and reads) can be retried 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; until resolution is reached.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Also, we've found that assigning the client id to something that is 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; relevant to your domain, e.g. real people, will help reduce surprises 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; (and degenerate cases like sibling explosion) when it comes to 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; vector-clock resolution.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Developer Advocate
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; http://basho.com/
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; On Apr 18, 2011, at 8:15 PM, Aphyr wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; I actually had a question about that page. Why is it that when there
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; is a conflict we can only get the conflicting versions of the data?
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; If I'm going to try to resolve the conflict intelligently, I really
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; want the common ancestor as well so that I can try to do a 3-way
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; merge.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Good call. If an ancestor were available it would make counting and 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; merging orthogonal changes \\*much\\* simpler.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com


\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

