---
title: "Re: Informal survey about Python client API changes"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-07-25T14:41:19-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08067"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg08051"
author_name: "Ray Cote"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-07-25T14:41:19-07:00
---


I'll toss our Twisted/Riak component into the conversation:
 https://bitbucket.org/asi/txriak

Note that this was a minimal port of the original Riak Python code
into a Twisted/deferred model. As such, we kept as close as possible to the 
original 
Python code -- just introduced the asynchronous nature required by Twisted.

Been awhile since it has been updated -- but it is in daily production use. 
--Ray


----- Original Message -----
&gt; From: "Philipp Borgers" 
&gt; To: riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; Sent: Tuesday, July 24, 2012 6:40:20 PM
&gt; Subject: Re: Informal survey about Python client API changes
&gt; 
&gt; On Tue, 2012-07-24 at 17:00 -0400, Shuhao Wu wrote:
&gt; &gt; On Tue, Jul 24, 2012 at 11:27 AM, Jeremy Thurgood
&gt; &gt;  wrote:
&gt; &gt; &gt; On 24 July 2012 15:53, Sean Cribbs  wrote:
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; So, on to my grandiose plans for the future of the Python Riak
&gt; &gt; &gt; client.
&gt; &gt; &gt; We're currently using a combination of this client and
&gt; &gt; &gt; Riakasaurus,
&gt; &gt; &gt; which is a Twisted-based client library that we maintain.
&gt; &gt; &gt; Riakasaurus
&gt; &gt; &gt; is based (indirectly) on a previous version of the Python client,
&gt; &gt; &gt; but
&gt; &gt; &gt; is different enough that it's impossible to pull in upstream
&gt; &gt; &gt; changes
&gt; &gt; &gt; directly. The main reason for the divergence is that the Python
&gt; &gt; &gt; client
&gt; &gt; &gt; assumes blocking network I/O operations that will return when
&gt; &gt; &gt; they
&gt; &gt; &gt; have the required data, while Twisted uses an asynchronous
&gt; &gt; &gt; callback-based I/O mechanism.
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; I think it would be possible to restructure the Python client
&gt; &gt; &gt; somewhat
&gt; &gt; &gt; to decouple the higher-level operations from the lower-level
&gt; &gt; &gt; network
&gt; &gt; &gt; operations in a way that would let us switch between
&gt; &gt; &gt; Twisted-style
&gt; &gt; &gt; async I/O and more traditional blocking I/O. This would probably
&gt; &gt; &gt; be a
&gt; &gt; &gt; fairly invasive change in some ways, but shouldn't have any
&gt; &gt; &gt; noticeable
&gt; &gt; &gt; impact on the external API. I'm hoping it'll make the
&gt; &gt; &gt; ConnectionManager replacement cleaner and more flexible, but I
&gt; &gt; &gt; don't
&gt; &gt; &gt; have a good enough mental model of the system to be sure.
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; Actually. I already have a prototype of just a separation between
&gt; &gt; the
&gt; &gt; higher level and lower level API. I'm planning to add async IO
&gt; &gt; (done
&gt; &gt; in some local branch a couple months ago, but very crude) but
&gt; &gt; haven't
&gt; &gt; figured out a "good" way of doing it (callbacks, twisted style
&gt; &gt; defer.
&gt; &gt; Greenlet vs threads. etc.) just yet.
&gt; 
&gt; I'm highly interested in the async stuff! Would be great if you could
&gt; share your local branch or ideas.
&gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; In addition I also added sibling handlings, which I believe is
&gt; &gt; missing/lacking in the riak-python-client, which is a center part
&gt; &gt; of
&gt; &gt; my higher level design.
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; If you want to take a look and see if this is something you think
&gt; &gt; is
&gt; &gt; what you mean, here's a link:
&gt; &gt; https://github.com/ultimatebuster/riak-python-client2
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; It's also a prototyping repo for me in terms of what to try to
&gt; &gt; bring
&gt; &gt; to the official clients via pull requests.
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; As the person proposing this, I'm happy to put some effort into
&gt; &gt; &gt; hacking up a prototype to see if this is actually a workable idea
&gt; &gt; &gt; and
&gt; &gt; &gt; to do the bulk of the implementation work if it is -- it'll save
&gt; &gt; &gt; on a
&gt; &gt; &gt; bunch of Riakasaurus maintenance in the future if we can pull it
&gt; &gt; &gt; off.
&gt; &gt; &gt; I'm proposing some pretty drastic surgery to the existing
&gt; &gt; &gt; codebase, so
&gt; &gt; &gt; I'd like to know if other people (especially Sean) think it's a
&gt; &gt; &gt; good
&gt; &gt; &gt; idea before I sink too much time into it.
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; Thanks,
&gt; &gt; &gt; --J
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; &gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
 

-- 
Ray Cote, President
Appropriate Solutions, Inc.
We Build Software
603.924.6079

