---
title: "Re: Riak Search is now just Riak w/ Search enabled"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-06-13T14:42:32-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03672"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg03669"
author_name: "Thomas Fee"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-06-13T14:42:32-07:00
---


What about Ubuntu? (assuming your usual Debian package works for Ubuntu)


On Mon, Jun 13, 2011 at 3:37 PM, Sean Cribbs  wrote:

&gt; Sorry, I've been corrected by our release manager. We have quit building
&gt; and supporting 32-bit binaries for RHEL as of 0.14.x (0.14.0 was the last,
&gt; and a manual build at that). Unless strong demand appears for a 32-bit RHEL
&gt; package, we won't be releasing any more.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt; Developer Advocate
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; http://basho.com/
&gt;
&gt; On Jun 13, 2011, at 5:15 PM, Thomas Fee wrote:
&gt;
&gt; I noticed the riak-search prebuilt binaries for RedHat are all 64bits. Is
&gt; this merely a reflection of memory needs or of something more fundamental?
&gt; Mainly for development and QA, it would be bad if the unified riak couldn't
&gt; be downloaded and installed for 32bits.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Mon, Jun 13, 2011 at 3:09 PM, Ryan Zezeski  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Riak Users,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I'm happy to announce that Riak Search has now been integrated with Riak
&gt;&gt; in the master branch.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; https://github.com/basho/riak/commit/1a4daa717ce9bb627e72fb7c32dda2ec84e02e92
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; To use Search you no longer checkout the riak\\_search repo. Instead, you
&gt;&gt; checkout riak, build a release as you usually would, and then enable the
&gt;&gt; Search functionality. It should be fairly obvious how to do this by looking
&gt;&gt; at `app.config` but there is a small README in the riak\\_search repo going
&gt;&gt; over this (which I should probably move into the Riak README).
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; https://github.com/basho/riak\\_search
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Along with the integration work we have also decided to drop support for
&gt;&gt; JVM based analyzers (i.e. the Qilr application was removed). While our
&gt;&gt; analyzers are not nearly as sophisticated as what is provided by Lucene we
&gt;&gt; engaged with the community and our customers and found that very few, if
&gt;&gt; any, are making use of this functionality. Considering the cruft and
&gt;&gt; general awkwardness this caused to the riak\\_search code base we figured it
&gt;&gt; was best to remove this support for now. Furthermore, this support was not
&gt;&gt; free in that there was overhead that had to be paid for talking with the
&gt;&gt; JVM instances running these analyzers. This doesn't mean we won't possibly
&gt;&gt; support more advanced analyzers in the future but for now we have what we
&gt;&gt; need for the majority of use cases.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Finally, please bear with us while we update documentation and refine the
&gt;&gt; Search/Riak integration over the next couple of months.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; -Ryan
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

