---
title: "Re: Write_lock error has occurred after inserting 12M data"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-07-30T14:10:14-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00812"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg00811"
author_name: "David Smith"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-07-30T14:10:14-07:00
---


Given the amount of data Ken has inserted, I'd say there's a 90% chance this
problem is related to a bug I fixed earlier this week:

http://bitbucket.org/basho/bitcask/changeset/6a74d3aac4fb

But without more information, it's hard to say. I presume, Ken, you are also
seeing a vnode crash error before this happens and I'm betting it's emfile
related.

D.

On Fri, Jul 30, 2010 at 3:06 PM, Alexander Sicular wrote:

&gt; This may be another max file handler type of error. Or maybe even an oom
&gt; thing if the key length is large.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Jul 30, 2010, at 4:59 PM, Grant Schofield wrote:
&gt;
&gt; &gt; I am not sure if you hit an already fixed bug in Bitcask or not. What
&gt; version of Riak are you running on currently?
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Grant Schofield
&gt; &gt; Developer Advocate
&gt; &gt; Basho Technologies
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; On Jul 30, 2010, at 1:28 PM, Ken Matsumoto wrote:
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; Hi all,
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; I just tried to insert 1Billion data records.
&gt; &gt;&gt; But I got the "write\\_lock" error after 12Million data.
&gt; &gt;&gt; What is the reason and how should I avoid this?
&gt; &gt;&gt; I use bitcask (default) backend and no parameters changed in config
&gt; file.
&gt; &gt;&gt; 1 record is just 70B text data.
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; Regards,
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; Ken.
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; --
&gt; &gt;&gt; Ken Matsumoto
&gt; &gt;&gt; VP / Research & Development
&gt; &gt;&gt; Nomura Research Institute America, Inc.
&gt; &gt;&gt; NRI Pacific
&gt; &gt;&gt; 1400 Fashion Island Blvd., Suite 1010
&gt; &gt;&gt; San Mateo, CA 94404, U.S.A.
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; PLEASE READ：This e-mail is confidential and intended for the named
&gt; recipient only. If you are not an intended recipient, please notify the
&gt; sender and delete this e-mail.
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; &gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;

