---
title: "Re: riak-erlang segfault"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-10-17T09:10:07-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08952"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg08947"
author_name: "Evan Vigil-McClanahan"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-10-17T09:10:07-07:00
---


Sorry, Martin, I had a reply-all failure. My reply to Tomas read:

I was incorrect: the HIPE issue only bites is on Solaris and FreeBSD.
That said: we don't test with HIPE on, so for the things that we know
about riak to be maximally useful to you, I generally suggest that
people build using the same configurations as we do.

I'll make sure that the docs get updated, and I've let our build
manager know about the wrinkle for hardened kernels. Unfortunately we
don't support any right now, so it might be a bit before anything gets
done.

If you'd open an issue here: https://github.com/basho/node\\_package,
it'd be more likely to get addressed.

Of course, having said that, I haven't gotten the docs updated:

https://github.com/basho/basho\\_docs/issues/27


On Wed, Oct 17, 2012 at 3:49 AM, Martin Woods  wrote:
&gt; Hi Evan - can you or someone at Basho provide any more information on the
&gt; question below regarding building Riak from source please? Does Riak really
&gt; need to be built from source with HIPE disabled? (We've been running with it
&gt; enabled for over a year now with no known issues...)
&gt;
&gt; Thanks and regards,
&gt; Martin.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On 9 October 2012 11:57, Martin Woods  wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi Evan - below you state:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; "The first thing that strikes me is that you have HIPE enabled on your
&gt;&gt; erlang, and the version isn't the one we build with. This isn't
&gt;&gt; something riak is usually happy with"
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; So if we build Riak from source we MUST use R15B01 (and not R15B02?!) and
&gt;&gt; MUST disable Hipe? Why? Isn't Hipe normally on by default? What problems
&gt;&gt; does it cause Riak? Is the need to disable Hipe mentioned anywhere?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Regards,
&gt;&gt; Martin.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On 7 October 2012 19:50, Evan Vigil-McClanahan 
&gt;&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; The first thing that strikes me is that you have HIPE enabled on your
&gt;&gt;&gt; erlang, and the version isn't the one we build with. This isn't
&gt;&gt;&gt; something riak is usually happy with.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; If you're doing 1.2, try rebuilding riak with R15B01 compiled with
&gt;&gt;&gt; --diable-hipe.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; The config file is usually called app.config, as well, but that might
&gt;&gt;&gt; have been a typo on your part.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; On Sun, Oct 7, 2012 at 3:28 AM, Tomas Charvat  wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; Hallo, I have fresh system and Im getting segfaults with riak/erlang.
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; erl\\_crash.dump attached
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; Any tip what could be possible wrong ?
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; Bin /usr/lib64/riak/erts-5.9/bin/erlexec has same problem as
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; /usr/lib64/erlang/erts-5.9/bin/erlexec
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; Result is that riak cant find /etc/riak/app.conf
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; erl, erlc are working without any problem
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; cheers
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; Tomas
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

