---
title: "Re: AppFog"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-12-21T05:14:20-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg09665"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg09662"
author_name: "Sean Cribbs"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-12-21T05:14:20-08:00
---


Jimmy,

We have an open pull-request to fix it here:
https://github.com/basho/riak\\_pb/pull/27. Once that is accepted I will bump
and tag the package and push to pypi.

On Fri, Dec 21, 2012 at 2:29 AM, Jimmy Ho  wrote:

&gt; Hi Evan/Adron,
&gt;
&gt; Yes, was using risk-python-client.
&gt;
&gt; I had the same experience during dev on local PC (mac) as I didn't have
&gt; protobuf (http://code.google.com/p/protobuf/) installed.
&gt;
&gt; From my understudying appfog would do a pip install in virtualenv based on
&gt; requirements.txt.
&gt; So I presume the Appfog instances do not have protobuf installed.
&gt;
&gt; Evan - What does this patch do? Does it remove the dependency on protobuf
&gt; (if one is planning to use http only)? Or does it somehow fixes the pip
&gt; install?
&gt; Would you have any ETA on this?
&gt;
&gt; Thanks for the help.
&gt; Jimmy
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Jimmy Ho
&gt; Sent with Sparrow 
&gt;
&gt; On Friday, 21 December 2012 at 04:23, Evan Vigil-McClanahan wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Jimmy, if you're trying to install via pip, you need to pip install
&gt; protobuf first to get things to work. There's a patch in the works
&gt; that should fix this shortly.
&gt;
&gt; On Thu, Dec 20, 2012 at 10:26 PM, Adron Hall  wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Hey James,
&gt;
&gt; Is the http://basho.github.com/riak-python-client/ what you're trying to
&gt; use? What are the problems you're getting when you're trying to compile?
&gt;
&gt; -Adron
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Thu, Dec 20, 2012 at 3:21 PM, Jimmy Ho  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Hi guys,
&gt;
&gt; Anyone using Appfog to connect to riak using python?
&gt;
&gt; I am having problems with compilation protobuf when it tried to install
&gt; the python client.
&gt;
&gt; Anyway around this apart from using HTTP directly via urllib / etc ?
&gt;
&gt; Thanks.
&gt; James.
&gt;

-- 
Sean Cribbs 
Software Engineer
Basho Technologies, Inc.
http://basho.com/
