---
title: "Re: mochijson2 error from curl mapreduce"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-06-05T18:24:33-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07619"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg07618"
author_name: "John Roy"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-06-05T18:24:33-07:00
---


Excellent -- that helped a great deal.

For those who may search in the future the most important thing is to have the 
output of your final step (a reduce in my case) be a list of {Key :: Binary, 
Value :: json\\_term()} as Bob identified below. 

In a standard map reduce that means the input to the reduce step and the output 
of the map step must also be that same data structure. So by converting the 
dictionary in my map step to a string, and doing some from\\_list, to\\_list magic 
in the reduce I was able to achieve my goal.

Here's my newbie looking (but working!) code for those interested in the 
details:

emitStatsFromList(G, undefined, none)-&gt;
 ObjectJson = riak\\_object:get\\_value(G),
 {array, ListOfStructs} = mochijson:decode(ObjectJson),
 [{getMrKey(I), 1} || I &lt;- ListOfStructs].

getMrKey(StructItem)-&gt;
 {struct, DocPropList} = StructItem,
 SList = [proplists:get\\_value("obj\\_name",DocPropList,"None"),
 proplists:get\\_value("type",DocPropList,"None"),
 proplists:get\\_value("obj\\_url",DocPropList,"None"),
 "hourly"],
 string:join(SList, ",").

reduceStatsList(Gcounts, none)-&gt;
 GC = [dict:from\\_list(Gcounts)],
 Update = [lists:foldr(fun(G, Acc)-&gt;dict:merge(fun(\\_, X, Y) -&gt; X+Y end,G, 
Acc) end,
 dict:new(),
 GC)],
 [OutputList] = [dict:to\\_list(I) || I &lt;- Update],
 OutputList.

Thanks again,

John


On Jun 5, 2012, at 2:27 PM, Bob Ippolito wrote:

&gt; On Tue, Jun 5, 2012 at 1:22 PM, John Roy  wrote:
&gt; I saw something similar from an individual who was using javascript 
&gt; (http://lists.basho.com/pipermail/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com/2011-July/004843.html),
&gt; but I don't think I have the same problem in erlang. Any help is greatly 
&gt; appreciated.
&gt; 
&gt; I'm consistently getting the following error from my curl map reduce calls:
&gt; 
&gt; {error,{exit,{json\\_encode,{bad\\_term,…..
&gt; 
&gt; output dictionary here, then:
&gt; 
&gt; [{mochijson2,json\\_encode,2},
&gt; {mochijson2,'-json\\_encode\\_array/2-fun-0-',3},
&gt; {lists,foldl,3},
&gt; {mochijson2,json\\_encode\\_array,2},
&gt; {riak\\_kv\\_wm\\_mapred,pipe\\_mapred\\_nonchunked,5},
&gt; {webmachine\\_resource,resource\\_call,3},
&gt; {webmachine\\_resource,do,3},
&gt; 
&gt; The term that follows the error appears to the correct result of the map 
&gt; reduce.
&gt; 
&gt; I'm just trying the mr locally for testing purposes. I'm using eleveldb 
&gt; backend and riak (1.1.2 2012-04-17) OSX x86\\_64.
&gt; 
&gt; Here's the curl command:
&gt; 
&gt; curl -v -X POST http://127.0.0.1:8098/mapred -H "Content\\_Type: 
&gt; application/json" -d @query.js
&gt; 
&gt; and the query.js:
&gt; 
&gt; {
&gt; "inputs" : {
&gt; "bucket" : "test7",
&gt; "index" : "field1\\_int",
&gt; "start" : 0,
&gt; "end" : 23
&gt; },
&gt; "query" : [
&gt; { "map" : {"language" : "erlang", "module" : "impressions", 
&gt; "function" : "emitStats", "keep" : false} },
&gt; { "reduce" : {"language" : "erlang", "module" : "impressions", 
&gt; "function" : "reduceStats", "keep" : true} }
&gt; ],
&gt; "timeout" : 600000
&gt; }
&gt; 
&gt; and finally the associated erlang functions:
&gt; 
&gt; emitStats(G, undefined, none)-&gt;
&gt; ObjectJson = riak\\_object:get\\_value(G),
&gt; {struct, DocPropList} = mochijson:decode(ObjectJson),
&gt; I = {proplists:get\\_value("obj\\_name",DocPropList,"None"),
&gt; proplists:get\\_value("type",DocPropList,"None"),
&gt; proplists:get\\_value("obj\\_url",DocPropList,"None"),
&gt; "hourly"},
&gt; [dict:from\\_list([{I,1}])].
&gt; 
&gt; reduceStats(Gcounts, none)-&gt;
&gt; [lists:foldr(fun(G, Acc)-&gt;dict:merge(fun(\\_, X, Y) -&gt; X+Y end,G, Acc) end,
&gt; dict:new(),
&gt; Gcounts)].
&gt; 
&gt; I don't have any experience with Riak's MR implementation, but mochijson2 
&gt; does not have any native support for serializing dict, and JSON itself 
&gt; doesn't support keys that are not strings, and I suspect that one or both of 
&gt; those may be your problem. mochijson2 expects to see {struct, [{Key :: 
&gt; binary(), Value :: json\\_term()}]} for JSON objects.
&gt; 
&gt; -bob
&gt; 

