---
title: "Re: Problem running Innostore at Mac OS X"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-05-16T02:44:59-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00387"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg00386"
author_name: "Dmitry Demeshchuk"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-05-16T02:44:59-07:00
---


Sorry, I was wrong. Since app.conf was reset, Riak was using kv
storage again. When I switched back to Innostore, I got the same
problem again.

On Sun, May 16, 2010 at 1:37 PM, Dmitry Demeshchuk  wrote:
&gt; Reinstalled Erlang from source, it helped.
&gt;
&gt; Thanks!
&gt;
&gt; On Sun, May 16, 2010 at 1:13 PM, Preston Marshall
&gt;  wrote:
&gt;&gt; Please ensure you are using the latest version of Erlang.  I built mine from 
&gt;&gt; Homebrew.
&gt;&gt; On May 16, 2010, at 4:12 AM, Dmitry Demeshchuk wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Greetings.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; I'm running Mac OS X 10.5.8. Riak 0.10.1 is compiled and works good.
&gt;&gt;&gt; However, when I install Innostore like described at the wiki page and
&gt;&gt;&gt; try to perform any operations with Riak, node goes down.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; When I start riak using `bin/riak console`, everything seems to work good:
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; 100516 12:48:13 Embedded InnoDB 1.0.6.6750 started; log sequence number 
&gt;&gt;&gt; 44243
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; But when I try to get keys from a bucket, to put any data using basic
&gt;&gt;&gt; Erlang interface (either from the other Erlang node or from the opened
&gt;&gt;&gt; console), Riak crashes with bus error.
&gt;&gt;&gt; I tried to start Riak as root but with the same result. Then thought
&gt;&gt;&gt; that perhaps free disk space is too low (about 12 GB) and freed some
&gt;&gt;&gt; space (up to about 20 GB) but still get the same result. Also, tried
&gt;&gt;&gt; to turn SMP on and off - still no result.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; I'm going to try installing it on my FreeBSD machine, will write about
&gt;&gt;&gt; the results.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt;&gt; Best regards,
&gt;&gt;&gt; Dmitry Demeshchuk
&gt;&gt;&gt;

&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Best regards,
&gt; Dmitry Demeshchuk
&gt;

-- 
Best regards,
Dmitry Demeshchuk

