---
title: "Re: Similar equivalent to mongoimport"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-04-24T12:49:12-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07312"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg07311"
author_name: "Jeremiah Peschka"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-04-24T12:49:12-07:00
---


Responses inline.
---
Jeremiah Peschka - Managing Director, Brent Ozar PLF, LLC
Microsoft SQL Server MVP

On Apr 24, 2012, at 12:37 PM, yatr...@yahoo.com wrote:

&gt; Hello,
&gt; 
&gt; I am just starting out with Riak and am switching over from MongoDB. I have 
&gt; many GB of data in either JSON or XML and was wondering if there is a way to 
&gt; import this in a bulk manner to Riuk. For MongoDB, I put each json file in 
&gt; one text file with each json document on one line and use mongoimport to 
&gt; upload to a collection. Is there an equivalent thing to mongoimport in Riuk? 
&gt; If not, how can I get this data in. Also, is it ok to interact with Riuk 
&gt; using Ruby as I do not know Erlang?

There's no direct equivalent that I know of, but you can check out the Riak 
Function Contrib where you'll find this easily modified Ruby program to import 
YAML http://contrib.basho.com/yaml\\_importer.html Pay no attention to the 
terrible code style, I am not a professional Ruby developer.

Obviously, you can interact with Riak using Ruby. There are a number of 
community developed clients as well as officially supported clients so you can 
use your language of choice.

&gt; 
&gt; Lastly, am I right to assume that a bucket is similar to a collection in 
&gt; mongodb and the key/objects are the documents?

A bucket is a logical namespace within Riak. There's no physical separation 
like you might see in the tables of an RDBMS. Not knowing how MongoDB stores 
data on disk, I can't speak to a collection.

A key is the identifier for an object, just like the key in MongoDB is the 
identifier for the document. 

The value is an arbitrary binary pile of data - it can be anything you want. If 
you're storing a JSON or XML document, you'll want to make sure you set the 
content type appropriately before you store it in Riak. 
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks very much for the help.
&gt; 
&gt; Mark
