---
title: "Re: riak kv search and analyzers"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-11-11T00:41:00-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg09284"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg09282"
author_name: "Mridul Kashatria"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-11-11T00:41:00-08:00
---


Hi Tom,

I saw that documentation but it is not clear how to define that schema on 
auto-indexed key value search.

The commands given are below
# Set an index schema.
bin/search-cmd set-schema Index SchemaFile

# View the schema for an Index.
bin/search-cmd show-schema Index

I don't know what is "Index" in this context, is it the bucket name?

I did "search-cmd install " to add a pre commit hook to that 
bucket. 

Thanks

--
Mridul 


On 11-Nov-2012, at 1:20 AM, Thomas Santero wrote:

&gt; Hi Mridul,
&gt; 
&gt; The standard analyzer will automatically convert all letters to lowercase, so 
&gt; all you need to do is create a custom schema for your JSON field names using 
&gt; {analyzer\\_factory, {erlang, text\\_analyzers, standard\\_analyzer\\_factory}} and 
&gt; set the schema as it described in the documentation[0].
&gt; 
&gt; [0] 
&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/cookbooks/Riak-Search---Schema/#Defining-a 
&gt; Schema
&gt; 
&gt; Tom
&gt; 
&gt; On Sat, Nov 10, 2012 at 2:39 PM, Mridul Kashatria  
&gt; wrote:
&gt; Hi,
&gt; 
&gt; I was trying Riak's auto-indexed search on a bucket using the standard pre 
&gt; commit hook. The JSON objects that I save have title and description fields 
&gt; which need to be treated as full text search.
&gt; 
&gt; Problem is that I could not find how to do case insensitive full text search 
&gt; on the bucket. In the document at 
&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/cookbooks/Riak-Search---Schema/ I can see 
&gt; that "standard analyzer" is what is required for full text search. How can I 
&gt; set this analyzer in the Riak key value search?
&gt; 
&gt; Regards
&gt; 
&gt; --
&gt; 
&gt; Mridul
 
&gt; 

