---
title: "Re: JavaScript Client"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-03-30T06:07:26-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg02797"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg02796"
author_name: "Adam Hunter"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-03-30T06:07:26-07:00
---


Hey,

You'll need to write an additional javascript file that uses the riak-js
client to get your values. I usually couple that with an html document to
put the values inside the dom for easy viewing. Both of these can be
uploaded to your node the same way the previous files were. You can also
use firebug or web-inspector to play with the riak-js client, but you'll
still need an html document to include the javascript files in. Hopefully
that helps, if not I can make a github gist for you.

Thanks,

Adam Hunter
@adamachine
http://adamhunter.me
http://github.com/adamhunter



On Wed, Mar 30, 2011 at 6:00 AM, Muhammad Yousaf
wrote:

&gt; I have added riak.js ,json2.js, jquery-1.5.js in to my bucket in riak
&gt; now i dont know how can i query my bucket using javascript client ?
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; I want to fetch my values from my bucket how to do that ?
&gt;
&gt; I want to do map/reduce to my bucket where can i submit my command using
&gt; javascript client?
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; using erlang client i can do anything but how to do with javascript client?
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Regards,
&gt;
&gt; Muhammad Yousaf
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; ------------------------------
&gt; Subject: Re: JavaScript Client
&gt; From: s...@basho.com
&gt; Date: Wed, 30 Mar 2011 08:45:49 -0400
&gt; CC: riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; To: muhammad.you...@live.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Muhammad,
&gt;
&gt; To upload the JS client into Riak, use curl like so (and you can do the
&gt; same with any other files, adjusting the content-type appropriately):
&gt;
&gt; curl -H "Content-Type: text/javascript" --data-binary @riak.js
&gt; http://localhost:8098/riak/js/riak.js
&gt;
&gt; Is this what you're trying to do?
&gt;
&gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt; Developer Advocate
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; http://basho.com/
&gt;
&gt; On Mar 30, 2011, at 8:00 AM, Muhammad Yousaf wrote:
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; How can i get my values from bucket by dropping .js files in my bucket?
&gt; any example please
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Regards,
&gt;
&gt; Muhammad Yousaf
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

