---
title: "Re: 'not found' after join"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-05-02T21:12:44-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03197"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg03196"
author_name: "Greg Nelson"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-05-02T21:12:44-07:00
---


Actually, I just found this bug: https://issues.basho.com/show\\_bug.cgi?id=992

So it looks like the r=1 idea won't work.
On Monday, May 2, 2011 at 8:36 PM, Greg Nelson wrote: 
&gt; Ok, thank you Ryan. I'm glad that what I'm seeing is expected behavior, 
&gt; although it is a little surprising.
&gt; 
&gt; As Kyle asked in a parallel reply on this thread: is it possible for the 
&gt; client to distinguish between these different scenarios where a notfound can 
&gt; be returned? My initial thought is that when a node is being added, clients 
&gt; can do reads with r=1 and retry GETs that 404...?
&gt; On Monday, May 2, 2011 at 8:14 PM, Ryan Zezeski wrote:
&gt; &gt; Greg,
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; Your expectations are fair, just because you added a node doesn't mean Riak 
&gt; &gt; should return notfounds. Unfortunately, we aren't quite there yet. This is 
&gt; &gt; a side effect of how Riak currently implements handoff in that it 
&gt; &gt; immediately updates/gossips the ring causing many partitions to handoff 
&gt; &gt; immediately. If a request comes in that relies on these partitions then it 
&gt; &gt; will get a notfound and perform read repair. You're situation is multiplied 
&gt; &gt; by the fact that you are going from 3 nodes to 4. More vnode shuffling 
&gt; &gt; occurs because of the small cluster size. 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; We're well aware of this and have it on our radar for improvement in a 
&gt; &gt; future release.
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; All this said, you data will be eventually consistent. That is, all your 
&gt; &gt; data will eventually be handed off and things will work as normal. It's 
&gt; &gt; only during the handoff that you \\_may\\_ encounter notfounds. In this case it 
&gt; &gt; would be best to add a new node to your cluster at lowest load times and if 
&gt; &gt; you can spare additional hardware a few more nodes to start with is an even 
&gt; &gt; easier option. 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; -Ryan
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; On Mon, May 2, 2011 at 9:48 PM, Greg Nelson  wrote:
&gt; &gt; &gt; Hello riak users! 
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; I have a 4 node cluster that started out as 3 nodes. ring\\_creation\\_size = 
&gt; &gt; &gt; 2048, target\\_n\\_val is default (4), and all buckets have n\\_val = 3. 
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; When I joined the 4th node, for a few minutes some GETs were returning 
&gt; &gt; &gt; 'not found' for data that was already in riak. Eventually the data was 
&gt; &gt; &gt; returned, due to read repair I would assume. Is this expected? It seems 
&gt; &gt; &gt; that 'not found' and read repairs should only happen when something goes 
&gt; &gt; &gt; wrong, like a node goes down. Not when adding a node to the cluster, 
&gt; &gt; &gt; which is supposed to be part of normal operation! 
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; Any help or insight is appreciated!
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; Greg 
&gt; &gt; &gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; &gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; 
