---
title: "Re: Simpler, many m/r phases, or complex, fewer m/r phases?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-03-15T02:00:55-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06965"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06963"
author_name: "Samuel Elliott"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-03-15T02:00:55-07:00
---


Have you had a closer look at riak\\_pipe? You might manage to write
something custom that only performs a read once, but that splits the work
into many smaller pieces. (riak\\_kv's M/R implementation lies atop riak\\_pipe
since 1.1 iirc)

https://github.com/basho/riak\\_pipe

Sam

On Thu, Mar 15, 2012 at 2:25 AM, Jonathan Langevin &lt;
jlange...@loomlearning.com&gt; wrote:

&gt; k, that's what I was afraid of (full value read from disk).
&gt; This is for a client lib for Riak, so I'll reconfigure it to combine the
&gt; logic down to single map/reduce phases. Luckily the logic in this case is
&gt; mostly non-complex, while custom m/r functionality would be sent per phase
&gt; specified by the application. The custom m/r phases would likely be more
&gt; complex logic, so that pretty much works itself out.
&gt;
&gt; Thanks for the feedback!
&gt;
&gt; \\*
&gt;
&gt; 
&gt; Jonathan Langevin
&gt; Manager, Information Technology
&gt; Loom Inc.
&gt; Wilmington, NC: (910) 241-0433 - jlange...@loomlearning.com -
&gt; www.loomlearning.com - Skype: intel352
&gt; \\*
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Wed, Mar 14, 2012 at 10:02 PM, Alexander Sicular wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; I would probably say complex/fewer MR phases but I guess it would depend
&gt;&gt; on the compute complexity of your functions (in order to take advantage of
&gt;&gt; parallelism/more compute cores). My reasoning is that every time you Map
&gt;&gt; you are reading the full value from disk. More Maps = more disk i/o. Not to
&gt;&gt; mention the erlang to js overhead if you are running js functions.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Please report your findings!
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Best,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; -Alexander Sicular
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; @siculars
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Mar 14, 2012, at 6:16 PM, Jonathan Langevin wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; What is better for performance in Riak?
&gt;&gt; \\*
&gt;&gt; More phases with simpler logic, or less phases with more complex logic?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; For instance, if I want to check 10 different fields of the result
&gt;&gt; objects, using 10 different functions, should I combine that all down into
&gt;&gt; 1-2 m/r phases, or run as 10 different m/r phases?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I would think more phases would suggest that the workload could be
&gt;&gt; distributed across various nodes more easily, but few phases would mean
&gt;&gt; that the values wouldn't have to be processed as many times...
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Jonathan Langevin
&gt;&gt; Manager, Information Technology
&gt;&gt; Loom Inc.
&gt;&gt; Wilmington, NC: (910) 241-0433 - jlange...@loomlearning.com -
&gt;&gt; www.loomlearning.com - Skype: intel352
&gt;&gt; \\*
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;


-- 
Samuel Elliott
s...@lenary.co.uk
http://lenary.co.uk/
+44 (0)7891 993 664
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

