---
title: "Re: High volume data series storage and queries"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-08-08T14:17:33-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04264"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04263"
author_name: "Pablo Chacin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-08-08T14:17:33-07:00
---


I'm facing a similar (yet not such extreme) use case. I'm also considering a
similar strategy, but I was thinking about using riak search instead of a
rdbs for the secondary indexes.

On Mon, Aug 8, 2011 at 10:25 PM, Paul O  wrote:

&gt; Hi Jeremiah,
&gt;
&gt; This is for a yet-to-exist system, so the existing data characteristics are
&gt; not that important.
&gt;
&gt; The volume of data would be something like : average 10 events per second
&gt; per source meaning about 320 million events per source, for tens of
&gt; thousands of sources, potentially hundreds of thousands.
&gt;
&gt; Data retention policy would be in the range of years, probably 5 years.
&gt;
&gt; Most of the above-mentioned are averages, some sources might be sampled
&gt; even hundreds of times per second. There is also a layer of creating
&gt; aggregates for "regressive granularity" (a la RRD) but it's a bit less of a
&gt; concern (i.e. the same strategy I'm describing could be used for storing the
&gt; aggregates.)
&gt;
&gt; The strategy I've described tries to make the most common query (time range
&gt; per source with a max number of elements) predictable and as performant as
&gt; possible. I.e. for any range I know at most three batches need to be read
&gt; from Riak (or equivalent) so I can say that, if reading a batch takes 20 ms
&gt; and the initial query takes 10 ms I can predictably respond to most such
&gt; requests under 100 ms.
&gt;
&gt; So as long as I can benchmark individual aspects of the strategy I hope to
&gt; a predictable query cost and an idea of how to grow the system.
&gt;
&gt; As for the read to write ration I don't have an exact estimate (the system
&gt; will be generic and consumption applications will be built on top of it) but
&gt; the system is expected to be a lot more write intensive than read intensive.
&gt; Most data might go completely unused, some data might be rather "hot" so
&gt; additional caching might be implemented later but I'm trying to design the
&gt; underlying system so at least some performance axioms are computable.
&gt;
&gt; Does this clarify or confuses further?
&gt;
&gt; Regards,
&gt;
&gt; Paul
&gt;
&gt; On Mon, Aug 8, 2011 at 3:32 PM, Jeremiah Peschka &lt;
&gt; jeremiah.pesc...@gmail.com&gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; It sounds like a potentially interesting use case.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; The questions that immediately enter my head are:
&gt;&gt; \\* How much data do you currently have?
&gt;&gt; \\* How much data do you plan to have?
&gt;&gt; \\* Do you have a data retention policy? If so, what is it? How do you plan
&gt;&gt; to implement it?
&gt;&gt; \\* What's the anticipated rate of growth per day? Week? Year?
&gt;&gt; \\* What type of queries will you have? Is it a fixed set of queries? Is it
&gt;&gt; a decision support system?
&gt;&gt; \\* What does your read to write ratio look like?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Your plan to support Riak with a hybrid system isn't that out of whack;
&gt;&gt; it's very doable.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; You can certainly do the type of querying you've described through careful
&gt;&gt; choice of key names, sorting in memory, and only using the first N data
&gt;&gt; points in a given Map Reduce query result. The main reason to not perform
&gt;&gt; range queries in Riak is that they'll result in full key space scans across
&gt;&gt; the Riak cluster. If you're using bitcask as your backend then it's an in
&gt;&gt; memory scan, otherwise you're doing a much more costly scan from disk. And,
&gt;&gt; since key names are hashed as they are partitioned across the cluster,
&gt;&gt; you're not going to get the benefit of sequential disk scan performance like
&gt;&gt; you might get with a traditional database.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; The only thing that worries me is the phrase "should grow more than what a
&gt;&gt; 'vanilla' RDBMS would support". Are you thinking 1TB? 10TB? 50TB? 500TB? I'm
&gt;&gt; trying to get a handle on what size and performance characteristics you're
&gt;&gt; looking for before diving into how to look at your system vs. saying "Hell
&gt;&gt; if I know, does someone else on the list have a good idea?"
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; ---
&gt;&gt; Jeremiah Peschka - Founder, Brent Ozar PLF, LLC
&gt;&gt; Microsoft SQL Server MVP
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Aug 8, 2011, at 11:21 AM, Paul O wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; Hello Riak enthusiasts,
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; I am trying to design a solution for storing time series data coming
&gt;&gt; from a very large number of potential high-frequency sources.
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; I thought Riak could be of help, though based on what I read about it I
&gt;&gt; can't use it without some other layer on top of it.
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; The problem is I need to be able to do range queries over this data, by
&gt;&gt; the source. Hence, I want to be able to say "give me the N first data points
&gt;&gt; for source S between time T1 and time T2."
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; I need to store this data for a rather long time, and the expected
&gt;&gt; volume should grow more than what a "vanilla" RDBMS would support.
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; Another thing to note is that I can restrict the number of data points
&gt;&gt; to be returned by a query, so no query would return more than MaxN data
&gt;&gt; points.
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; I thought about doing this the following way:
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; 1. bundle date time series in batches of MaxN, to ensure that any query
&gt;&gt; would require reading at most two batches. The batches would be store inside
&gt;&gt; Riak.
&gt;&gt; &gt; 2. Store the start-time, end-time, size and Riak batch ID in a MySQL (or
&gt;&gt; PostgreSQL) DB.
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; My thinking is such a strategy would allow me to persist data in Riak
&gt;&gt; and linearly grow with the data, and the index would be kept in a RDBM for
&gt;&gt; fast range queries.
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; Does it sound sensible to use Riak this way? Does this make you
&gt;&gt; laugh/cry/shake your head in disbelief? Am I overlooking something from Riak
&gt;&gt; which would make all this much better?
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; Thanks and best regards,
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; Paul
&gt;&gt; &gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

