---
title: "Re: Index issue"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-12-05T07:32:45-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg09437"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg09436"
author_name: "Sean Cribbs"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-12-05T07:32:45-08:00
---


Martin,

Also keep in mind that if you're using the Ripple::TestServer in your
tests, it uses the memory backend, which also supports 2I.


On Wed, Dec 5, 2012 at 9:19 AM, Martin Streicher  wrote:

&gt;
&gt; I will look.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Dec 5, 2012, at 10:04 AM, Gideon de Kok wrote:
&gt;
&gt; I'm not using Ripple, but am assuming that line of code fetches the object
&gt; by index.
&gt; As I stated before; since you are using Bitcask, you can't use any
&gt; secondary indexes.
&gt;
&gt; Information about 2i can be found at:
&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/tutorials/querying/Secondary-Indexes/
&gt; I suggest to read those pages and the ones about choosing backends to get
&gt; a better view how Riak actually works and how to configure it properly.
&gt;
&gt; Cheers,
&gt;
&gt; On Dec 5, 2012, at 4:00 PM, Martin Streicher 
&gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Gideon: Thanks.
&gt;
&gt; A few more details.
&gt;
&gt; I am using Ripple. These are the critical lines, where the latter is a
&gt; class method.
&gt;
&gt; property :zid\\_id, String, index: true
&gt;
&gt; def self.find\\_by\\_zid(zid)
&gt; key = zid.respond\\_to?(:key) ? zid.key : zid
&gt; find\\_by\\_index('zid\\_id', key).first
&gt; end
&gt;
&gt; I have this in my app.config
&gt; {storage\\_backend, riak\\_kv\\_bitcask\\_backend},
&gt;
&gt; My rspec tests pass.
&gt;
&gt; Any other clues?
&gt;
&gt; On Dec 5, 2012, at 9:53 AM, Gideon de Kok wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Probably because you've already configured leveldb as backend.
&gt; There is a tutorial:
&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riak/1.2.0/tutorials/choosing-a-backend/LevelDB/ on
&gt; how to switch backends…
&gt;
&gt; Cheers,
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Dec 5, 2012, at 3:51 PM, Martin Streicher 
&gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Hmmm... then why does the code work on my machine?
&gt;
&gt; And how do I switch backends?
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Dec 5, 2012, at 9:47 AM, Gideon de Kok wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Martin,
&gt;
&gt; Your log nicely states what the problem is:
&gt; {indexes\\_not\\_supported,riak\\_kv\\_bitcask\\_backend}
&gt;
&gt; For 2i based queries, you should be using the eleveldb backend…
&gt;
&gt; Cheers,
&gt;
&gt; On Dec 5, 2012, at 3:43 PM, Martin Streicher 
&gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; A colleague is getting the following error...
&gt;
&gt; Riak::HTTPFailedRequest (Expected 200 from Riak but received 500.
&gt; 500 Internal Server
&gt; ErrorInternal Server Error
=====================

The server
&gt; encountered an error while processing this
&gt; request:  

```
{error,{error,{indexes_not_supported,riak_kv_bitcask_backend}}}
```


---

mochiweb+webmachine
&gt; web server

):
&gt; app/controllers/profiles\\_controller.rb:28:in `find\\_identity'
&gt;
&gt; We've run search-cmd install on the bucket. The code for the app
&gt; essentially does the search-cmd operation at startup, too.
&gt;
&gt; There is one field in the model where index: true. This parameter was
&gt; added recently so I can run find\\_by\\_index to lookup records by the field
&gt; values, but my machine did not have any issues.
&gt;
&gt; Any ideas?
&gt;
&gt; Martin
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;

&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;

-- 
Sean Cribbs 
Software Engineer
Basho Technologies, Inc.
http://basho.com/
