---
title: "Re: 0.14 node leaving mixed cluster"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-02-25T02:15:49-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06744"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06741"
author_name: "Timo Gatsonides"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-02-25T02:15:49-08:00
---


As a follow-up, the node that was leaving is now stopped. The logging looks 
kind of normal to me, but I notice that all handoffs went only to a single 
other node. I have dumped the logging here:

http://pastebin.com/u6HYNjSZ

My cluster has nodes 1-6, node6 was already converted to 1.1 with LevelDB 
backend, I was trying to leave the cluster on node4. From the logging it 
appears all hand-offs went to node5? Is that normal?

Now I am unsure how to proceed, as all the nodes still give the same error when 
running "riak-admin ringready":

RPC to 'riak@node3' failed: {'EXIT',
 {{badrecord,chstate},
 [{riak\\_core\\_ring,owner\\_node,1},
 {riak\\_kv\\_status,
 '-get\\_rings/0-lc$^0/1-0-',1},
 {riak\\_kv\\_status,
 '-get\\_rings/0-lc$^0/1-0-',1},
 {riak\\_kv\\_status,get\\_rings,0},
 {riak\\_kv\\_status,ringready,0},
 {riak\\_kv\\_console,ringready,1},
 {rpc,
 '-handle\\_call\\_call/6-fun-0-',
 5}]}}

Also I have noted that some "run forever" processes (Ruby) still have a 
Protobuff connection to Riak that appears to work, however new connections fail.

Any advice on how to repair the ring/cluster would be appreciated.

Thanks,
Timo


&gt; I have a 6 node cluster. One node is running 1.1 already, the other 5 are 
&gt; still 0.14.
&gt; 
&gt; I want not only to upgrade from 0.14 to 1.1 but also change backend from bit 
&gt; cask to leveled, so I thought I would do a "leave cluster, wait for handoff, 
&gt; upgrade and change config, join cluster" cycle for each node.
&gt; 
&gt; Now I have done a "riak-admin leave" and getting some errors. Both on the 
&gt; node that has left as well as on other nodes I get this:
&gt; 
&gt; $ sudo /usr/sbin/riak-admin ringready
&gt; Attempting to restart script through sudo -u riak
&gt; RPC to 'riak@….' failed: {'EXIT',
&gt; {{badrecord,chstate},
&gt; [{riak\\_core\\_ring,owner\\_node,1},
&gt; {riak\\_kv\\_status,
&gt; '-get\\_rings/0-lc$^0/1-0-',1},
&gt; {riak\\_kv\\_status,
&gt; '-get\\_rings/0-lc$^0/1-0-',1},
&gt; {riak\\_kv\\_status,get\\_rings,0},
&gt; {riak\\_kv\\_status,ringready,0},
&gt; {riak\\_kv\\_console,ringready,1},
&gt; {rpc,
&gt; '-handle\\_call\\_call/6-fun-0-',
&gt; 5}]}}
&gt; ...


\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

