---
title: "RE: Cluster on startup."
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-11-07T04:27:42-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg09224"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg09218"
author_name: "Kevin Burton"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-11-07T04:27:42-08:00
---


On more question. The "Quick Start" shows manually starting each riak server
then joining. But when I start my Linux server I see that a riak server is
started. I am assuming that this is the main riak server that was installed.
How do I start three riak instances instead of just one or by starting one
they all are started automatically? I understand the join cannot be
configured. So after I have these three riak instances running (presumably
after a reboot) then I join them into a cluster, reboot, and the cluster
will be formed? After the cluster has been formed how do I "edit" it? I
would foresee needing to add or remove nodes from the cluster.

 

From: Reid Draper [mailto:reiddra...@gmail.com] 
Sent: Tuesday, November 06, 2012 9:36 PM
To: Kevin Burton
Cc: riak-users@lists.basho.com
Subject: Re: Cluster on startup.

 

 

On Nov 6, 2012, at 5:43 PM, Kevin Burton  wrote:





This is probably an FAQ but I was unable to find an answer so hopefully
there will be some patient people.

 

The "Quick Start" builds a simple cluster all on the same machine (called
dev1, dev2, and dev3). It assigns the ports, IP addresses, etc. I would like
to do something similar but I would like the cluster to startup
automatically. What do I need to add to the configuration file so that all
of the joins etc. happen on startup? This would be a Ubuntu Server if it
makes any difference.

 

There is no configuration option to do this. However, once the nodes have
been joined to a cluster, they'll

remain part of the same cluster even if they're restarted. Hope this helps.

 

Reid

 

 

Thank you.

 

Kevin

 

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
  riak-users@lists.basho.com
 
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

 

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

