---
title: "Riak Recap for 7/13 - 7/14"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-07-15T09:52:49-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00736"
author_name: "Mark Phillips"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-07-15T09:52:49-07:00
---


Afternoon, Evening, Morning to all,

For today's recap: Riak and Dynamo in Chicago, and some great
knowledge from #riak.

Enjoy,

Mark

Community Manager
Basho Technologies
wiki.basho.com
twitter.com/pharkmillups

-----

Riak Recap 7/13 - 7/14

1) seancribbs had a brief conversation with sooli, a MongDB user.
(Don't worry, no one was harmed).

Gist here ---&gt; http://gist.github.com/476107

2) Not sure if I mentioned this yet, but for all you who live in or
around the Windy City, Riak and the Dynamo paper will be the topic of
the next ChiDB meeting, happening this coming Monday.

Info and registration here ---&gt; http://bit.ly/chidb-july

3) Q --- Anybody know where can i choose in the case of confliting
values? If the users choose the right version, or if it's done
automatically by riak using timestamps? I suppose the open source
version can do both? Is there any way to specify an automatic conflict
resolution by riak (ex: by timestamps), instead of always giving the
conflicting versions to the client (application layer) to decide?
(from ricardoG via #riak)

 A --- By default, Riak will use physical timestamps stored in the
vectorclock to select the "newest version." This behavior can be
changed by setting the "allow\\_mult" property of a bucket to "true"
which causes the client to receive all conflicting version.

4) Q --- Anyone uses riak with zend framework? ( from boonkerz via #riak)

 A --- We haven't heard of anyone doing it just yet. Anyone out
there digging into Riak and Zend? (No one will fault you for being the
first, boonkerz...)

5) ronr\\_ opened an awesome discussion in #riak with "we're looking
into NoSQL database as a datastore solution for our
 application. So far, we concentrated on Cassandra, and while things
went great, there were still a few issues we try to overcome." This
conversation is long but worthwhile. Read it.

Gist here ---&gt; http://gist.github.com/477185

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

