---
title: "Re: Riak failed to start within 15 seconds,"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-07-25T19:51:31-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08071"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg08070"
author_name: "Shuhao Wu"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-07-25T19:51:31-07:00
---


Yup. /tmp is 777 and /tmp/risk is 755, owned by riak:riak

Shuhao
Sent from my phone.
On Jul 25, 2012 10:42 PM, "Joe Caswell"  wrote:

&gt; We have seen this a couple times. A common cause is the riak user needs
&gt; write access to the $PIPE\\_DIR in order to start properly. PIPE\\_DIR is
&gt; usually /tmp/riak/, check your riak script to make sure. If the directory
&gt; doesn't exist, it will be created with unix perm 755. Verify that the
&gt; riak user owns that directory, and has write permission to the parent
&gt; directory.
&gt;
&gt; On 7/25/12 10:19 PM, "Shuhao Wu"  wrote:
&gt;
&gt; &gt;This seems to be a somewhat common issue nowadays. I have this under
&gt; &gt;one of my server as well, though it's a debian 6 64bit.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;Cheers,
&gt; &gt;Shuhao
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;On Wed, Jul 25, 2012 at 12:29 PM, David Montgomery
&gt; &gt; wrote:
&gt; &gt;&gt; Hi,
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; I am new to riak.
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; I followed the instructions for a cluster setup at
&gt; &gt;&gt; https://wiki.basho.com/Basic-Cluster-Setup.html. It did not work. I
&gt; &gt;&gt; am using ubuntu64
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; I changed the ip in app.confing and vm.args and stoped the service.
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; then I ran the below.
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; riak-admin reip riak@127.0.0.1 r...@xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx
&gt; &gt;&gt; Attempting to restart script through sudo -u riak
&gt; &gt;&gt; Backed up existing ring file to
&gt; &gt;&gt; "/var/lib/riak/ring/riak\\_core\\_ring.default.20120724221850.BAK"
&gt; &gt;&gt; New ring file written to
&gt; &gt;&gt; "/var/lib/riak/ring/riak\\_core\\_ring.default.20120725161924"
&gt; &gt;&gt; root@i-157-16777-VM:~# sudo service riak start
&gt; &gt;&gt; Riak failed to start within 15 seconds,
&gt; &gt;&gt; see the output of 'riak console' for more information.
&gt; &gt;&gt; If you want to wait longer, set the environment variable
&gt; &gt;&gt; WAIT\\_FOR\\_ERLANG to the number of seconds to wait.
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; riak-admin status | grep ring\\_members yield no resutls
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; I am now at a deadend. How to resolve?
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; &gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; &gt;riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt;riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;

