---
title: "Re: Riak compared to CouchDB"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-01-28T16:43:12-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg02148"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg02141"
author_name: "Mark Phillips"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-01-28T16:43:12-08:00
---


So I cobbled together the beginnings of a wiki page for a Riak and
CouchDB comparison based on this thread. It's in a branch called
"riak-couchdb-comparison" in the wiki repo.

https://github.com/basho/riak\\_wiki/tree/riak-couchdb-comparison

As you'll see, it's \\_very\\_ sparse, and needs a lot of love and
expanding from people who know couchdb better than me.

I've also added a corresponding issue to the wiki repo:

https://github.com/basho/riak\\_wiki/issues/issue/22

A little help fleshing this out would be much appreciated.

Thanks,

Mark

On Fri, Jan 28, 2011 at 8:44 AM, Alexander Sicular  wrote:
&gt; Jamie hits a lot of points, ill cover sone, mind the overlap.
&gt; Couch has a built in indexing mechanism called a b-tree. Every view gets
&gt; it's own b-tree. The larger your data set the longer it takes to build the
&gt; b-tree.
&gt; Couch also knows when the b-tree was built in relation to data on disk via
&gt; internal sequence identifiers for each record. If your index is older than
&gt; data on disk it will update the b-tree with the new data. Riak has no native
&gt; indexing mechanism. If you want to reuse m/r results you need to stash them
&gt; somewhere.
&gt;
&gt; The subscription mechanism for changes is very nice but works because couch
&gt; is not a distributed system. It is a replicated system. That feature should
&gt; be worked into all rdbms's. Very handy.
&gt; The big win for couch is that you can arrange it in all sorts of interesting
&gt; topologies for replication. It can be used in offline systems that need to
&gt; sync when they get back online.
&gt; The couch guys are also working to scale couch down so you can use couch on
&gt; phones and other portable devices.
&gt; Like riak, couch is erlang based so you get all the erlang love. But unlike
&gt; riak couch is only accessible over http. Riak has protocolbuffers and native
&gt; access.
&gt;
&gt; Couch uses a wol (write only log) like bitcask (the default backend for
&gt; riak). They both need to be compacted to reclaim space. But unlike couch,
&gt; riak can also use other backends in the same cluster which gives you
&gt; flexibility.
&gt; And as hit on already but imho the biggest difference between couch and riak
&gt; is that in order to scale couch you need to implement a sharding layer to
&gt; split your data between multiple couches (see big couch, lounge). Riak is a
&gt; distributed system so all you need to do to scale riak is add more nodes. I
&gt; once tweeted something like "couch: divide and conquer. Riak: one ring to
&gt; rule them all."
&gt; Best, Alexander
&gt; @siculars on twitter
&gt; http://siculars.posterous.com
&gt; Sent from my iPhone
&gt; On Jan 28, 2011, at 8:29, Jamie Talbot  wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Hey Joshua,
&gt; I'm relatively new to Riak, but have done quite a bit of investigation into
&gt; CouchDB, so this is as much to confirm my own understanding as anything.
&gt;  With that disclaimer out of the way, here's what I understand about the
&gt; two.
&gt; Couch has excellent database consistency - killing the server process dead
&gt; won't lose you any data, and recovering after a crash is very quick.  Fault
&gt; tolerance I would say is Riak's biggest selling point, with the ability to
&gt; configure how many nodes can fail before results can no longer be returned
&gt; or written.  You can kind of achieve fault tolerance with Couch by
&gt; load-balancing behind a proxy, but it's a kludge compared to the
&gt; fault-tolerance that is at the very heart of Riak.
&gt; Both CouchDB and Riak have map/reduce functionality available through REST,
&gt; using Erlang or Javascript.  With Couch, querying the data can be
&gt; problematic though, especially on large sets of data as you have to
&gt; pre-define views of how you want to extract data and then wait for them to
&gt; be built.  It's certainly not true that you can just choose any old design
&gt; and then figure things out later.  Building views can take a long time - on
&gt; a few hundred million rows in my sample, it took a number of weeks to build
&gt; one relatively minor view (though hardware was quite limited).  This makes
&gt; RAD with CouchDB difficult, and was a significant business risk.  The upside
&gt; here is that once built, I could query 7 years of ISP data at year, month,
&gt; day, hour, minute granularity, across any cross-section of services in a
&gt; handful of milliseconds.  This was incredible, and pretty addictive - it's
&gt; lightning fast, for very specific use cases.
&gt; The space requirements for Couch are enormous though, as updates and even
&gt; deletes increase the size of the DB, until compacted.  Riak too will use
&gt; additional space to store duplicate copies of data on different nodes, to
&gt; provide fault tolerance, though from my experiments the overhead is nothing
&gt; like recent versions of CouchDB for my specific use cases.  Your mileage
&gt; will vary greatly, based on your configuration of Riak and the
&gt; characteristics of your Couch views.
&gt; Riak, from what I understand is not currently particularly well-suited to
&gt; retrieving large amounts of data sequentially by key, but CouchDB works very
&gt; quickly here, as long as you have defined a suitable view.
&gt; Couch does bi-directional replication, though I did find that a little
&gt; flaky, sometimes dying for no reason.  No data loss of course, and it did
&gt; eventually sync, but frustrating nonetheless.  This was as of the previous
&gt; version.  Riak does replication of data as part of its architecture, but if
&gt; you want to scale to multiple datacentres, you need the enterprise, non-free
&gt; version.
&gt; Scalability is hard with Couch, from what I can tell - certainly not the
&gt; ability just to add a new node for better performance like you can with
&gt; Riak.  For me, this is a killer feature of Riak.
&gt; Couch has a nice subscription mechanism for changes to the database, which
&gt; allows you to set triggers and the like.  Don't be fooled by the talk of
&gt; document versioning though - it is built in, but it is purely a mechanism
&gt; for the MVCC (replication and concurrency) mechanism to work and old
&gt; versions of documents are specifically removed whenever the database is
&gt; compacted.
&gt; This page has a high-level comparison of a number of NoSQL options,
&gt; including Riak and CouchDB, which was generally considered to be pretty
&gt; reasonable: http://kkovacs.eu/cassandra-vs-mongodb-vs-couchdb-vs-redis
&gt; Hopefully that's a reasonable representation of the two systems.  I will let
&gt; more seasoned pros correct and expand on the above as necessary!
&gt; Cheers,
&gt; Jamie.
&gt; PS: Hello, list!
&gt; On Fri, Jan 28, 2011 at 21:44, Joshua Partogi  wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi there.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Has anyone here done any comparison between Riak and CouchDB? I am
&gt;&gt; interested to see how similar and different Riak compared to Couch. If this
&gt;&gt; can be added to the Riak wiki, I think it would be great for all of us here.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks heaps.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Kind regards,
&gt;&gt; Joshua.
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; http://twitter.com/jpartogi

&gt;
 \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;

