---
title: "Re: What is the advantage of using luwak?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-01-25T07:49:52-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg02122"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg02118"
author_name: "Thomas Burdick"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-01-25T07:49:52-08:00
---


It looks like luwak allows you stream data as well instead of just doing a
put or get on the entirety of it. Thats a huge bonus if the files are very
large such as video files.

Tom Burdick

On Tue, Jan 25, 2011 at 8:05 AM, Jeremiah Peschka &lt;
jeremiah.pesc...@gmail.com&gt; wrote:

&gt; As I see it, there are a few advantages -
&gt;
&gt; You get Riak's built-in redundancy. The various chunks of your file will be
&gt; written in multiple locations across your cluster. Even in the event of a
&gt; single server failure, you'll still be able to read data out of your luwak
&gt; cluster.
&gt;
&gt; Performance - I would think that there's a performance boost since you can,
&gt; in theory, serve more files through the same luwak cluster than you could
&gt; serve through a single file server (unless that file server itself were also
&gt; clustered and attached to a SAN).
&gt;
&gt; If you're storing text (or some other easily understood format) you can use
&gt; MapReduce to perform queries across your files instead of having to write
&gt; some kind of file system crawler.
&gt;
&gt; Jeremiah Peschka
&gt; Microsoft SQL Server MVP
&gt; MCITP: Database Developer, DBA
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Tue, Jan 25, 2011 at 8:56 AM, Joshua Partogi wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; From the wiki:
&gt;&gt; "Luwak works by breaking large files into blocks and storing each block as
&gt;&gt; a separate Riak object"
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; But what does not get mentioned is the advantage of it. Does it make
&gt;&gt; serving files faster? Or does it save more space in HD?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks heaps for your assistance.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; http://twitter.com/jpartogi 
&gt;

