---
title: "Re: Pervasive replication"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-10-05T09:22:25-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01197"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg01195"
author_name: "Jason J. W. Williams"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-10-05T09:22:25-07:00
---


Maybe the community can come up with a solution for those of us that can't 
afford or yet justify EnterpriseDS. 

-J

Sent via iPhone

Is your e-mail Premiere?

On Oct 5, 2010, at 9:40, Dean Cookson  wrote:

&gt; Andrew,
&gt; The best way to do what you describe is to have a cluster in each datacenter 
&gt; with the multi-cluster replication feature from the EnterpriseDS version of 
&gt; Riak running between them. Replication will automatically propagate writes 
&gt; in both directions and will give you the local access performance you need. 
&gt; We recommend against having a single cluster span data centers as any given 
&gt; cluster really needs to share a low-latency network.
&gt; 
&gt; Best regards,
&gt; Dean
&gt; 
&gt; --
&gt; Dean Cookson
&gt; VP Business Development
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; Google Voice: +1 415 692 1775
&gt; Skype: photo\\_luddite
&gt; cook...@basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Oct 4, 2010, at 7:35 PM, Andrew Cooper wrote:
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Hello everyone,
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; The Dynamo replication scheme allows one to specify how many nodes a
&gt;&gt; change should be propagated to. But what if I want a change to be
&gt;&gt; (eventually) propagated to each and every machine in the cluster?
&gt;&gt; I can't simply specify a fixed number of nodes to replicate to,
&gt;&gt; because, in the general case, this is time-varying. My use case is a
&gt;&gt; multi-datacenter cluster with a low read latency requirement for
&gt;&gt; certain records (thus those records need to be present in each
&gt;&gt; datacenter, if not even on each machine).
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Is this currently possible, or would it require a patch? Or would this
&gt;&gt; be too difficult to implement with the current architecture? This
&gt;&gt; seems to be a problem common to all databases using the Dynamo
&gt;&gt; replication scheme... or is it? Thoughts?
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt; Andrew
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

