---
title: "Re: Large Files"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-02-15T13:02:18-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06608"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06600"
author_name: "Mark Phillips"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-02-15T13:02:18-08:00
---


Hi Nicholas,

Excellent question.

In at least one past email [1], Dizzy hinted that Basho was investigating a
new approach for large file storage on top of Riak. At this point I can say
that this new approach has been validated, and there is working code to go
along with it. However, the large file solution is currently part of a
larger, yet-to-be-released Basho product (let's call it "NewProd"), one
which will not be available under the Apache 2.0 license (like the vast
majority of our software), but that will be part of our suite of commercial
(read: "paid") offerings. NewProd's primary functionality will be to
provide an S3-like layer on top of stock Riak, and the large files will be
a subset of that. We'll start making some noise about NewProd in the weeks
following the official release of Riak 1.1 (which will be early next-week).

As noted before, Luwak was at the end of life from a code perspective --
there were some design flaws that meant we could not use it (safely) on the
scale which NewProd needed. This does not mean that the new large file
functionality shipping with NewProd will never be released as open source,
but it will not be for the immediate future.

With that, a few "ifs":

\\* If you're using Luwak in production, there's nothing to stop you from
continuing to do so. You'll just have to modify a few build scripts to make
sure Riak builds starting with version 1.1.
\\* If you're building a new application and need large files, you're advised
to consider the new code (which, again, will be released commercially in a
few weeks).
\\* If you're relying on Luwak as a mission-critical part of your
infrastructure but Basho ending support for it has you less than thrilled,
please email me.

Apologies for being long-winded. Hope that helps. Happy to answer any
follow up questions.

Mark

[1]
http://lists.basho.com/pipermail/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com/2012-January/007170.html



On Tue, Feb 14, 2012 at 9:01 AM, Nicholas Young  wrote:

&gt; A few months ago, we were informed that Luwak would be unmaintained as
&gt; of the 1.1 release. I'm wondering, with the impending 1.1 release,
&gt; what does the roadmap for storing large files with Riak look like?
&gt;
&gt; I've looked at using S3, Swift, and HDFS - and nothing seems to be as
&gt; simple to use as Luwak. (Plus, I admire the dedication that the Basho
&gt; team puts on developer experience. And as a one-man team - for the
&gt; moment, anyway - my work is much simpler when using Riak.) I've even
&gt; looked at using MongoDB's GridFS (but Mongo can be a pain in the ass
&gt; to scale out, from what I can see.)
&gt;
&gt; Any news, no matter how speculative, would be appreciated. Those of us
&gt; who were planning to use, or are actively using Luwak, just need to
&gt; know where the project is headed. Thanks!
&gt;
&gt; Nicholas
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

