---
title: "Re: Map/Reduce In pure erlang"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-07-29T09:09:37-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04145"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04144"
author_name: "Brian Rowe"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-07-29T09:09:37-07:00
---


This isn't completely accurate. There's nothing to stop you from
writing a module that reads in a key, compiles the payload as code,
and calls a function within the newly compiled module. Similarly, you
can set up the nodes to point to an external library path and run the
modules from there.

As far as running map/reduce jobs from erlang, yes, there is an erlang
API for that using the riak erlang client. You can see from the source
that all of these operations are available:

-export([start\\_link/2, start\\_link/3,
 start/2, start/3,
 stop/1,
 ... snip ...
 mapred/3, mapred/4, mapred/5,
 mapred\\_stream/4, mapred\\_stream/5, mapred\\_stream/6,
 mapred\\_bucket/3, mapred\\_bucket/4, mapred\\_bucket/5,
 mapred\\_bucket\\_stream/5, mapred\\_bucket\\_stream/6,

https://github.com/basho/riak-erlang-client/blob/master/src/riakc\\_pb\\_socket.erl


On Fri, Jul 29, 2011 at 11:12 AM, Jeremiah Peschka
 wrote:
&gt; As I remember it, if you want to do Map/Reduce with erlang, you can only use 
&gt; functions that have been compiled and uploaded to the Riak cluster. That is: 
&gt; there's no way to write your erlang M/R jobs on the fly like you can do with 
&gt; JavaScript
&gt; ---
&gt; Jeremiah Peschka
&gt; Founder, Brent Ozar PLF, LLC
&gt;
&gt; On Jul 29, 2011, at 8:10 AM, Lyes Amazouz wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi!
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I want to know if there is a way to do a map/Reduce query using pure erlang 
&gt;&gt; library without (even for the map/reduce query functions) without using the 
&gt;&gt; Javascript or passing by the http interface . Does riak offers something 
&gt;&gt; like that?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thank you!
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; ================
&gt;&gt; Lyes
&gt;&gt; ================
&gt;
&gt;
