---
title: "Re: How many TB to be store in riak"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-03-01T09:48:48-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06817"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06752"
author_name: "Mark Phillips"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-03-01T09:48:48-08:00
---


2012/2/26 郎咸武 :
&gt; Hi Mark,firsrt thanks
&gt; If i usring file.erl r/w that big file, to store disk with zfs (Dynamic
&gt; File System).
&gt; How about this.

Hmm. To be honest, I'm not sure if that would work, though I'm
inclined to say no.

Mark


&gt; thank you
&gt;
&gt; jason
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; 在2012-02-24，"Mark Phillips"  写道：
&gt;
&gt; -----原始邮件-----
&gt; 发件人:"Mark Phillips" 
&gt; 发送时间:2012年2月24日 星期五
&gt;
&gt; 收件人:"郎咸武" 
&gt; 抄送:"riak-users@lists.basho.com" 
&gt; 主题:Re: How many TB to be store in riak
&gt;
&gt; Hi Jason,
&gt;
&gt; Random reads in LevelDB won't be an issue. It's also worth noting that the
&gt; bitcask backend will do at most one disk seek per read but this comes in
&gt; exchange for keeping you key directory in RAM. I still think Level is the
&gt; way to go for you.
&gt;
&gt; The 50MB file size will probably be an issue. We don't usually recommend
&gt; anything over 20MB at this point, and even that might be problematic.
&gt;
&gt; Mark
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; 2012/2/21 郎咸武
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi mark,
&gt;&gt; hmm you are right, I only have about 30TBs at present.
&gt;&gt; may be individual is 50MB.
&gt;&gt; There is a new requirement:
&gt;&gt; Random read any file. Is it work well?
&gt;&gt; Thanks again.
&gt;&gt; Jason
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; 在2012-02-22，"Mark Phillips"  写道：
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; -----原始邮件-----
&gt;&gt; 发件人:"Mark Phillips" 
&gt;&gt; 发送时间:2012年2月22日 星期三
&gt;&gt; 收件人:"郎咸武" 
&gt;&gt; 抄送:"riak-users@lists.basho.com" 
&gt;&gt; 主题:Re: How many TB to be store in riak
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On second thought, let's assume you have 100TBs worth of photos. (I'm sure
&gt;&gt; there are a few individual photos somewhere on the internet that come it at
&gt;&gt; 100TBs but I'm betting you don't have them).
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Riak should work well for this.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\* I'm assuming you'll have a lot of keys, so the LevelDB backend is
&gt;&gt; probably going to be best for local storage. We are also shipping LevelDB
&gt;&gt; with Snappy compression enabled as of 1.1, so this will help with the disk
&gt;&gt; storage requirements.
&gt;&gt; \\* Try to keep your file size under 20MB if possible.
&gt;&gt; \\* Keep in mind that 100TB with a default of 3 for a replication will yield
&gt;&gt; 300TB of raw data.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Feel free to fire more questions as they come to mind.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hope that helps.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Mark
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Tue, Feb 21, 2012 at 3:59 PM, Mark Phillipswrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Hi Jason,
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; I just want to make sure I understand your question correctly:
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Do you have 100TBs of photos you are thinking of storing in Riak? Or one
&gt;&gt;&gt; photo that's 100TB?
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Mark
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; 2012/2/21 郎咸武
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Hi all,
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; How many TB to be store in riak?
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Now i have about100TB picture. I want to store with riak. But i am not
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; sure that is ok.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Answer me, please.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Thanks.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; jason
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;

