---
title: "Re: Upgrading 0.14.2 cluster to 1.2"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-08-08T10:57:49-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08224"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg08222"
author_name: "Jon Meredith"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-08-08T10:57:49-07:00
---


Only test coverage. We didn't run direct testing to 0.14.2 - we also
deliberately made the decision not to remove some older code that would
have broken 0.14 upgrades until the next major release.

It all depends on your risk tolerance - we didn't make any file format
changes to bitcask so your data should be safe. If you wanted to try it, I
would take a backup of the ring directory in case you had to downgrade the
node again for any reason.

On the newly upgraded node you could run riak\\_core\\_capability:all(). on the
riak console, that would double-check that the settings matched the
required rolling upgrade settings, and make sure you do a diff of your
app.config/vm.args against the new package to check there aren't any
settings missing.

Jon.

On Wed, Aug 8, 2012 at 11:39 AM, Sebastian Cohnen &lt;
sebastian.coh...@gmail.com&gt; wrote:

&gt; I'm curious, are there any special reasons for your recommendation?
&gt;
&gt; On 08.08.2012, at 19:38, Jon Meredith  wrote:
&gt;
&gt; &gt; I would recommend going 0.14.2 -&gt; 1.1.4 -&gt; 1.2, making sure you follow
&gt; the pre-1.0 upgrade instructions on
&gt; http://wiki.basho.com/Rolling-Upgrades.html
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Once you do the upgrade from 1.2, the capabilities system will kick in
&gt; and the old legacy settings mentioned in the rolling upgrade will no longer
&gt; be used (if you need to you can override them with the new capability
&gt; override mechanism).
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Jon.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; On Wed, Aug 8, 2012 at 10:23 AM, Nathan Wilken  wrote:
&gt; &gt; Is an intermediate upgrade recommended? 0.14.2 --&gt; 1.0/1.1 --&gt; 1.2?
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; From: riak-users-boun...@lists.basho.com [
&gt; riak-users-boun...@lists.basho.com] on behalf of Sean Cribbs [
&gt; s...@basho.com]
&gt; &gt; Sent: Wednesday, August 08, 2012 6:35 AM
&gt; &gt; To: Sebastian Cohnen
&gt; &gt; Cc: riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; Subject: Re: Upgrading 0.14.2 cluster to 1.2
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Sebastian,
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; While it might work, we did not specifically test upgrades from 0.14.2,
&gt; only 1.0 and 1.1.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; On Wed, Aug 8, 2012 at 7:08 AM, Sebastian Cohnen &lt;
&gt; sebastian.coh...@gmail.com&gt; wrote:
&gt; &gt; Hey list,
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; is it a good idea to upgrade a small (3 node) cluster straight to 1.2
&gt; from 0.14.2. Especially with riak's 1.2 capabilities negotiation, it feels
&gt; like the upgrade process should be much simpler now? We don't do any M/R
&gt; jobs currently and we are only using bitcask right now.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Best
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Sebastian
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; --
&gt; &gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt; &gt; Software Engineer
&gt; &gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; &gt; http://basho.com/
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; --
&gt; &gt; Jon Meredith
&gt; &gt; Platform Engineering Manager
&gt; &gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; &gt; jmered...@basho.com
&gt; &gt;
&gt;
&gt;


-- 
Jon Meredith
Platform Engineering Manager
Basho Technologies, Inc.
jmered...@basho.com
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

