---
title: "Re: Riak security"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-09-30T14:50:46-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04958"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04957"
author_name: "Kyle Quest"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-09-30T14:50:46-07:00
---


I'm not here to define a perfect infrastructure for securing NoSQL
databases and Riak and go into implementation details... It's not my
intention because I simply don't have time to dedicate to this big
project and it's impossible to come up with a perfect solution right
away. Either way asking customers to be security experts is asking for
trouble... And I base this statement on the actual real world
experience in security, which I have quite a bit. I'll leave it on
this note :-) And let's talk in 10 or 15 years :-)

A quick advice to the Riak team... If you want to go beyond startups
as your customers you'll need to have a good story around security and
an integrated solution people can use. Good luck!

On Fri, Sep 30, 2011 at 2:23 PM, Aphyr  wrote:
&gt; On 09/30/2011 01:28 PM, Kyle Quest wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Having separate nodes for reads and writes provides an opportunity for
&gt;&gt; better isolation and control even when the requests are forwarded to
&gt;&gt; different vnodes...
&gt;
&gt; I humbly suggest this is a bad idea. Varying behavior between nodes
&gt;
&gt;  a.) is a headache to configure and maintain
&gt;  b.) creates fault-tolerance problems
&gt;  c.) creates unbalanced loads
&gt;
&gt; It's at odds with the symmetric layout of a dynamo system. Best case, you'll
&gt; fail more often. In addition, splitting reads and writes will require you to
&gt; work harder to handle client IDs. If you aren't careful, you'll lose data.
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Just like with anything else you can always build something on top...
&gt;&gt; The difference in maturity is determined by what you have to build
&gt;&gt; yourself vs what's already available and integrated into a unified
&gt;&gt; solution. Yes, there are different and unique aspects to how NoSQL
&gt;&gt; databases operate, but it's no excuse for not having any integrated
&gt;&gt; security. It's going to take time for integrated solutions to emerge,
&gt;&gt; but this is exactly what I was saying about the maturity stage the
&gt;&gt; NoSQL databases are in.
&gt;
&gt; What was the last datastore you \\*didn't\\* have to wrap in your own security
&gt; layer? I've built... I dunno, twenty or thirty of them for various
&gt; applications. Because trust is complicated, sufficiently general security
&gt; systems require almost as much configuration and integration glue as the
&gt; code you'd write to do it from existing primitives.
&gt;
&gt; That said, if you have a proposal for a security model I'd like to see it.
&gt; There is a dearth of pluggable access control layers for datastores. I
&gt; suspect there's a good reason for that.
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Either way saying, "you customer go take care of our database
&gt;&gt; product security" is not the answer :-)
&gt;
&gt; It is an entirely reasonable answer; access control is almost totally
&gt; orthogonal to robust data storage. You're asking Ikea to control who puts
&gt; things in your cabinets.
&gt;
&gt; I'm guessing the reason your posts appear so confused is because you don't
&gt; have a clear idea about what properties a "database security" system would
&gt; have. It might be worth writing down your specific requirements, and asking
&gt; "What percentage of use cases will this satisfy efficiently?"
&gt;
&gt; --Kyle Kingsbury
&gt;

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

