---
title: "Re: Structured data"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-08-03T07:36:42-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00832"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg00831"
author_name: "Curtis Caravone"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-08-03T07:36:42-07:00
---


Riak is not aware of the data types. It just presents a list of values to
the client for conflict resolution.

Curtis

On Tue, Aug 3, 2010 at 7:15 AM, James Sadler  wrote:

&gt; Hi Dmitry,
&gt;
&gt; Being able to represent any Erlang term is a good start.
&gt;
&gt; Which leads me to Riak's conflict resolution. Does this part of Riak
&gt; understand the data types or does it just present the N alternative
&gt; values for a key to the client when there is a conflict?
&gt;
&gt; There is potential for some semi-automated merging to be done
&gt; server-side in the case where values have richer semantics. I suspect
&gt; that it would depend on the application, and the client would need to
&gt; tell Riak it's OK to perform an automatic merge on write.
&gt;
&gt; On 3 August 2010 23:59, Dmitry Demeshchuk  wrote:
&gt; &gt; Hi, James.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Actually, Riak can store all Erlang terms: lists, tuples, numbers,
&gt; &gt; binaries, etc.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; But if you use, for example, PHP or Python, you can just use your own
&gt; &gt; serialization format. So there are no problems here for any other
&gt; &gt; languages as well.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; On Tue, Aug 3, 2010 at 5:47 PM, James Sadler 
&gt; wrote:
&gt; &gt;&gt; Hi guys,
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; Is there any plan for supporting more than opaque blobs as values in
&gt; &gt;&gt; the future? For example, lists, sets, hashes etc, including
&gt; &gt;&gt; server-side support for operating on those data-types?
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; In the meantime, I am curious about the feasibility of putting
&gt; &gt;&gt; riak\\_core in front of Redis, and supporting a richer API in the layers
&gt; &gt;&gt; above (which I suspect would need to be heavily modified to support
&gt; &gt;&gt; additional value manipulation functionality).
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; Also, is anyone aware of anyone attempting such a project?
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; Cheers,
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; --
&gt; &gt;&gt; James
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; &gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; --
&gt; &gt; Best regards,
&gt; &gt; Dmitry Demeshchuk
&gt; &gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; James
&gt;

