---
title: "Re: Riak Recap for Jan. 12 - 13."
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-01-14T15:21:12-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01977"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg01976"
author_name: "Ryan Zezeski"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-01-14T15:21:12-08:00
---


On Fri, Jan 14, 2011 at 5:46 PM, Mark Phillips  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; 2) seancribbs and jiboumans had a quick chat about Read Repair in
&gt; action (via #riak)
&gt;
&gt; \\* Gist here ---&gt; https://gist.github.com/780363
&gt;
&gt; \\* More on Read Repair on the wiki -
&gt; http://wiki.basho.com/Riak-Glossary.html#Read-Repair
&gt;
&gt;
Sean, could you please clarify two points for me.

1) Read Repair

Quote from the wiki -- "Read
repair occurs
when a successful read occurs — that is, the quorum was met — but not all
replicas from which the object was requested agreed on the value"

However, the OP said his get did not work the first time, so wouldn't that
mean the quorum wasn't met and therefore no read repair should have
occurred? That doesn't seem right but that's what I take away from the wiki
definition.

2) Why doesn't r=1 work?

In the IRC session, you claimed that r=1 would not have helped this problem.
 Just like the OP, this confused me. You then went on to say it was because
of some optimization and then mentioned a "basic quorum."

I took a few minutes to think about this and the only conclusion I came to
is that when r=1 you will treat the first response as the final response,
and in this case the notfound response will always come back first? I'm not
sure if what I just said makes sense but I would have expected r=1 to work,
just like the OP. I'll admit that I still haven't read all the wiki docs
yet (but I've read Read Repair 3 times now), so I'd be happy to hear RTFM.

-Ryan
