---
title: "Re: Installation questions"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-02-18T13:47:23-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06637"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06635"
author_name: "Tim Robinson"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-02-18T13:47:23-08:00
---


Hi Jared, 

Your explanation helps and it looks like I'm in good order.

Thanks,
Tim
-----Original Message-----
From: "Jared Morrow" 
Sent: Saturday, February 18, 2012 11:57am
To: "Tim Robinson" 
Cc: riak-users@lists.basho.com
Subject: Re: Installation questions

Regarding libssl, the packages are built on Ubuntu 10.04 LTS which has the 
libssl0.9.8 package. Ubuntu 11.10 got rid of the libssl0.9.8 package and 
instead went to libssl1.0.0. Note, these aren't two versions of the same 
package, Ubuntu created two completely separate packages with two different 
names rather than versioning a single libssl package. Understandably this 
caused some problems with trying to support multiple versions of Ubuntu. 

The decision was made to support as best we could the LTS release as that was 
the most common release used in production. In addition, the libssl0.9.8 
package can easily be installed along side the libssl1.0.0 package on ubuntu 
11.10 by simply installing it via apt (apt-get install libssl0.9.8) whereas it 
wasn't as easy going the other way and installing libssl1.0.0 on ubuntu 10.04. 
 

For things to work, you need that package, installing via '-f' will crash 
erlang on startup (or whenever it first attempts to use the crypto library). 

The other option you have is to take the source and build your own package on 
Ubuntu 11.10. You can do this by installing all of the debian packaging tools 
(dch, debhelper, make, gcc, erlang-14b04) and doing a 'make package RELEASE=1' 
in the root directory of the untarred source.

Hope that helps,
Jared


On Feb 18, 2012, at 11:38 AM, Tim Robinson wrote:

&gt; 
&gt; Couple of questions on installation:
&gt; 
&gt; 1. When using the pre-built .deb package I hit an error with dpkg requiring 
&gt; libssl version 0.9.8. I try to maintain the latest which is 1.1.0. While 
&gt; installing 0.9.8 fixed the immediate error is there a problem having multiple 
&gt; versions installed? And why is 0.9.8 required/hard-coded? Shouldn't any 
&gt; libssl be good enough? If I used -f would that cause other problems? 
&gt; 
&gt; 2. I don't see ring\\_creation\\_size in the app.config file as per docs 
&gt; (http://wiki.basho.com/Configuration-Files.html). Is there a reason it's 
&gt; missing? How is it implemented? under which option? what format? 
&gt; 
&gt; 3. If I've already started a new cluster, having added no data, but want to 
&gt; change the ring\\_creation\\_size, what are the steps? 
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; 
&gt; Tim
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com



Tim Robinson



\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

