---
title: "Re: Security risk of clients having access to vector clocks"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-01-17T18:24:02-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg09832"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg09830"
author_name: "Brian Picciano"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-01-17T18:24:02-08:00
---


If the only thing the client could potentially mess up is the specific key
that vector clock is for then that's fine, I just wanted to check that
there wasn't some equivalent of a sql injection which could be done to
manipulate/delete other keys.


On Thu, Jan 17, 2013 at 9:12 PM, Michael Clemmons
wrote:

&gt; Manipulating the vclock client side in theory could be used to affect what
&gt; data is stored. I wouldnt say this is a large problem but I would think
&gt; about whats being stored and if being able to say force a revert is
&gt; profitable.
&gt; On Jan 17, 2013 6:07 PM, "Brian Picciano"  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; A web app that we're building is designed in such a way that the vector
&gt;&gt; clocks returned from a bucket with use\\_multi:true will be sent to the
&gt;&gt; client, and the client will then return that vector clock in subsequent
&gt;&gt; requests so that we can keep track of state conflicts in riak.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; My question is: are there any security risks in doing this? We've
&gt;&gt; obfuscated the vector clock (and never call it the vector clock on the
&gt;&gt; client side), but that's just security through obscurity, and probably
&gt;&gt; wouldn't hold up very long. Would a client be able to get any meaninful
&gt;&gt; information out of a vector clock, or manipulate it in such a way that when
&gt;&gt; they return it it could harm the database? Are there any ways we could
&gt;&gt; combat this?

