---
title: "Re: 1.2.1 not starting up on osx"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-10-25T08:45:23-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg09059"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg09056"
author_name: "Jared Morrow"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-10-25T08:45:23-07:00
---


Siculars,

David looked at the issue a bit this morning and it is caused by epmd
segfaulting on startup. Now the good news is that there isn't
something inherently wrong in Riak on OSX, but it is still not a good
thing. I suspect it has to do with OSX and it's changes to its toolchain
amongst different versions. Admittedly, I don't have a great build story
for OSX. It is tough to get VM's of different versions of OSX, so the i386
OSX package is built on one machine and the 64bit build is built on yet
another machine. I wish right now I had a better answer for you, but I
don't. I will try in our next release to capture a more consistent
OS/Kernel version for the build on OSX.

If you want to make your own OSX package that works with your OS &
toolchain you can do something like the following:

```

$ git clone g...@github.com:basho/riak
$ cd riak
$ git checkout riak-1.2.1
$ make package RELEASE=1
$ cd package/packages
$ cp \\*.tar.gz 

```

Sorry again for the trouble. FWIW, the 64bit package works on my system
which is "12.2.0 Darwin Kernel Version 12.2.0"

Thanks,
Jared

On Thu, Oct 25, 2012 at 6:26 AM, David Parfitt  wrote:

&gt; Hello Alexander -
&gt;
&gt; I received the same issue. I'll see what I can do to get this resolved.
&gt;
&gt; Cheers -
&gt; Dave
&gt;
&gt; On Wed, Oct 24, 2012 at 4:47 PM, Alexander Sicular 
&gt; wrote:
&gt; &gt; first time i've seen this. simply untar and start. any thoughts?
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; npiabf100:r121 siculars$ tar xf riak-1.2.1-osx-x86\\_64.tar.gz
&gt; &gt; npiabf100:r121 siculars$ cd riak-1.2.1
&gt; &gt; npiabf100:riak-1.2.1 siculars$ bin/riak start
&gt; &gt; Error reading /Users/siculars/dev/r121/riak-1.2.1/etc/app.config
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; npiabf100:riak-1.2.1 siculars$ uname -a
&gt; &gt; Darwin npiabf100.cpmc.columbia.edu 11.4.2 Darwin Kernel Version 11.4.2:
&gt; Thu Aug 23 16:25:48 PDT 2012; root:xnu-1699.32.7~1/RELEASE\\_X86\\_64 x86\\_64
&gt; &gt; npiabf100:riak-1.2.1 siculars$
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Thanks,
&gt; &gt; -Alexander Sicular
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; @siculars
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;

