---
title: "Re: missing keys?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-09-14T09:51:36-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08545"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg08543"
author_name: "Alexander Sicular"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-09-14T09:51:36-07:00
---


Hi Pat,

"thanks for that. Is the default on dw not also quorum though?? so, in my 
case it should be 2 (since I have 2 nodes)??"

Consider the difference in the usage of the word "node." There is actually a 
large difference between two definitions of the commonly used word, "node."

1. node: virtual node, as indicated by the ring\\_creation\\_size default value, 
which is 64, and can be changed in app.config.

2. node: physical node, which is the number of physical machines in a cluster.

Historically and at the moment, virtual nodes are evenly divided amongst 
physical nodes.

The term "node" has been conflated and continues to be a pain point for 
newcomers to Riak (not that you are a newcomer, but in general).

In all cases, the values r, w, dw and considerations for quorum are entirely 
dependent on the replication value, known as n or n\\_val, which in turn 
represents replicas on a per virtual node basis.

Hope that clears some stuff up,

-Alexander Sicular

@siculars

On Sep 14, 2012, at 12:17 PM, Pat Lynch wrote:

&gt; Hi,
&gt; thanks for that. Is the default on dw not also quorum though?? so, in my 
&gt; case it should be 2 (since I have 2 nodes)??
&gt; 
&gt; thanks,
&gt; Pat.
&gt; 
&gt; Date: Fri, 14 Sep 2012 12:11:25 -0400
&gt; Subject: Re: missing keys?
&gt; From: rzeze...@basho.com
&gt; To: plynch1...@hotmail.com
&gt; CC: s...@basho.com; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; Pat,
&gt; 
&gt; On Fri, Sep 14, 2012 at 11:08 AM, Pat Lynch  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; So, if I write a key to a cluster and then try to query that key, it may not 
&gt; find it unless I retry? Even if r=2 & w=2 ? I thought that at least 2 
&gt; systems had to have that key (either in memory or disk) for the write to have 
&gt; succeeded with those settings? If I had w=3, would you expect any missed 
&gt; keys ?? (note that I didn't try that because I expected performance issues).
&gt; 
&gt; It's important to note that `w` is considered complete once the value is 
&gt; queued in-memory waiting to be written do disk [1]. A read does not check 
&gt; the queue but only on-disk data. The `dw` flag is what you want to know that 
&gt; the value has made it to disk and can be seen by a read.
&gt; 
&gt; -Z
&gt; 
&gt; [1]: https://github.com/basho/riak\\_kv/blob/master/src/riak\\_kv\\_vnode.erl#L284

