---
title: "Re: Riak in a common test suite"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-07-12T12:17:43-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03996"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg03994"
author_name: "Scott Gonyea"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-07-12T12:17:43-07:00
---


While not fool-proof, one idea might be to generate a random string for each
test-block, and prefix any bucket names with said string. While it depends
on what you're doing, I think something like this should work for the bulk
of your tests.

Scott

On Tue, Jul 12, 2011 at 9:42 AM, Jared Morrow  wrote:

&gt; Mikhail,
&gt;
&gt; I'll add something to virtualized option. If you start the vm's from a
&gt; snapshot vm that is already running, but with riak stopped, you could
&gt; possibly get it started and running in a couple of minutes or less. If
&gt; that is reasonable for your test suite, that seems like a good option.
&gt;
&gt; -Jared
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Tue, Jul 12, 2011 at 10:29 AM, Mathias Meyer  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Mikhail,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; that certainly sounds possible, but would extend the run time of your test
&gt;&gt; suite quite considerably, e.g. when you start a fresh set of virtualized
&gt;&gt; instances on every run.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; An alternative would be to always leave a Riak cluster running for testing
&gt;&gt; purposes and reset it after or before every complete test run, i.e. stop the
&gt;&gt; Riak processes, wipe the data, and start them up again.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Ripple (Ruby client for Riak) and riak-js (Node.js client) both include a
&gt;&gt; test server that runs a Riak instance with an in-memory backend, maybe that
&gt;&gt; would be an alternative to go with?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Mathias Meyer
&gt;&gt; Developer Advocate, Basho Technologies
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Dienstag, 12. Juli 2011 at 18:08, Mikhail Sobolev wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; Hi,
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; As part of our test suite I'd like to start a three node cluster for the
&gt;&gt; &gt; testing purposes.
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; Could anyone [please! :)] comment on feasibility/possibility of such a
&gt;&gt; &gt; thing?
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; --
&gt;&gt; &gt; Misha
&gt;&gt; &gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
&gt;&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

