---
title: "Best relational DB to use with RIak"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-01-23T10:17:22-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg02079"
author_name: "Mojito Sorbet"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-01-23T10:17:22-08:00
---


My application (which is entirely written in Erlang/OTP) stores large
blobs (20K - 250K bytes) in Riak, and the most common access, which has
to be fast, is retrieval of a single record by key. Ok, that's a good
match. And it can scale up to the millions/billions of records I want.

But there are other access patterns that really need some relational
concepts for organizing and managing these blobs according to various
metadata. These queries are used by interactive web pages and so
map-reduce is not appropriate - doing entire table scans just to find
the 1000 blob records that belong to one 'account' is going to put too
much load on the riak nodes and thus interfere with the primary queries.

I thought of having a bucket-per-account, with the data portion holding
keys into the main part of the store, but since behind the scenes the
query "get all the keys in this bucket" is doing a full map-reduce, I
run into the same problem. And "find all the objects for this account"
is not the only query that will turn up; "List all accounts" would be
another one, for exmaple. I am not sure running a second riak cluster
just for the metadata is any help.

So I thought, let Riak do what Riak is good at, and use a relational
database for fast queries of metadata. But which one? The alternatives
seem to be MySQL and PostgreSQL. Are there any recommendations on which
one works best with a distributed OTP Erlang app?

