---
title: "Re: Need quick fix for > lineno\":466, \"message\":\"SyntaxError: syntax	error\", \"source\":\"()"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-03-06T09:15:14-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06904"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06901"
author_name: "Dan Reverri"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-03-06T09:15:14-08:00
---


Hi Ivaylo,

Can you provide an example of the MapReduce job you are running? Are there
any log messages on the server side which correspond to the MapReduce
error? What bug are you referring to?

Thanks,
Dan

Daniel Reverri
Developer Advocate
Basho Technologies, Inc.
d...@basho.com


On Tue, Mar 6, 2012 at 8:11 AM, Ivaylo Panitchkov
wrote:

&gt;
&gt; Hello guys,
&gt;
&gt; We are in production and noticed ALL of the M/R requests failing right
&gt; after a bulk delete with the following response returned back:
&gt;
&gt; lineno":466,"message":"\\*\\*SyntaxError: syntax error","source":"()
&gt;
&gt; The problem is now persistent even if the delete operation was done awhile
&gt; ago.
&gt; I googled to find a solution and realized this is a bug not fixed yet.
&gt; We have a cluster of 4 machines with riak (1.0.2 2011-11-17) Debian x86\\_64
&gt; installed.
&gt; I need a quick fix ASAP if someone could help me out.
&gt;
&gt; Thanks in advance,
&gt; Ivaylo
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Ivaylo Panitchkov
&gt; Software developer
&gt; Hibernum Creations Inc.
&gt;
&gt; Ce courriel est confidentiel et peut aussi être protégé par la loi.Si vous
&gt; avez reçu ce courriel par erreur, veuillez nous en aviser immédiatement en
&gt; y répondant, puis supprimer ce message de votre système. Veuillez ne pas le
&gt; copier, l’utiliser pour quelque raison que ce soit ni divulguer son contenu
&gt; à quiconque.
&gt; This email is confidential and may also be legally privileged. If you have
&gt; received this email in error, please notify us immediately by reply email
&gt; and then delete this message from your system. Please do not copy it or use
&gt; it for any purpose or disclose its content.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\*\\*\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/\\*\\*mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_\\*\\*lists.basho.com
&gt;
