---
title: "Re: deletes vs innostore size"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-12-09T14:11:49-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01766"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg01764"
author_name: "Sean Cribbs"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-12-09T14:11:49-08:00
---


There is not an "optimize" command as far as I know. However, Inno has lots of 
knobs you can turn that might help.

Sean Cribbs 
Developer Advocate
Basho Technologies, Inc.
http://basho.com/

On Dec 9, 2010, at 3:36 PM, Colin Surprenant wrote:

&gt; Thanks Sean. Makes sense. Are there any external tools available to
&gt; "optimize" innostore? - like the "OPTIMIZE" statement on innodb in
&gt; MySQL?
&gt; 
&gt; Colin
&gt; 
&gt; On Thu, Dec 9, 2010 at 3:27 PM, Sean Cribbs  wrote:
&gt;&gt; Colin,
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Sorry we missed this question.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Innostore stores its data in a B-tree which expands and contracts according 
&gt;&gt; to the keys you have stored. So yes, when you delete keys, it should reduce 
&gt;&gt; the amount of used space. But innostore also pads the tree to keep it 
&gt;&gt; balanced and capable of adding new keys into the middle, so there will be 
&gt;&gt; some wasted space and small numbers of deletions won't greatly affect the 
&gt;&gt; used storage.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt;&gt; Developer Advocate
&gt;&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt;&gt; http://basho.com/
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On Dec 7, 2010, at 11:50 AM, Colin Surprenant wrote:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Hi,
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; How does innostore deal with key deletions? will it automatically
&gt;&gt;&gt; shrink in size relative to the amount of keys deleted? if not, is
&gt;&gt;&gt; there an optimize/compact function somewhere for that?
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt;&gt; Colin
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
