---
title: "Re: Evolving data model"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-09-19T08:08:23-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08595"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg08589"
author_name: "Pinney Colton"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-09-19T08:08:23-07:00
---


Wow, that's a pretty big question.

IMO, it depends upon what you're doing with your data. Personally, I'm
storing up to 4 different "versions" of the same data in Riak, each version
is optimized for different types of analytical operations.

That's probably not ideal for everybody. Heck, storing 4 copies of my data
isn't even optimal for me from a storage perspective - but it does help
optimize performance of different queries. I care more about that than
disk or memory.

On Tue, Sep 18, 2012 at 5:55 PM, Allen Johnson wrote:

&gt; Hey everyone,
&gt;
&gt; I'm beginning to experiment with Riak and I'm trying to better
&gt; understand how to model my data. One question I have at the moment is
&gt; how to evolve my data with a data store such as Riak? I know that
&gt; it's schema-less and that I can add new fields as needed but I'm
&gt; thinking more about the existing documents.
&gt;
&gt; For example, say hypothetically, that I have a fairly successful
&gt; riak-based app. As the application code continues to evolve over
&gt; several versions I begin to find a "better" way to model my data. By
&gt; this time I have already stored many, many documents. What is the
&gt; appropriate path here? Do I version my documents with metadata and
&gt; rely on my application code to continue to deal with old-style
&gt; documents -- or do I perform some sort of bulk transformation on these
&gt; existing documents?
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; Allen
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;



-- 
\\*Pinney H. Colton\\*
\\*Bitwise Data, LLC\\*
+1.763.220.0793 (o)
+1.651.492.0152 (m)
http://www.bitwisedata.com
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

