---
title: "Re: HTTP Client bug"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-09-24T12:23:12-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08681"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg08680"
author_name: "Deepak Balasubramanyam"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-09-24T12:23:12-07:00
---


Yes I noticed that it is a work around. I can bump the version beyond 4.2.x
and re-compile the riak-client, but can riak make a note of this as a
known-issue through a Github-Issue or buzilla (or whatever it is that you
use to track tasks) so you can get around to it later when you find the
time ?

Thank you for your help Guido.

- Deepak

On Tue, Sep 25, 2012 at 12:48 AM, Guido Medina wrote:

&gt; The pull request doesn't fix the HttpClient issue, it is more like a
&gt; workaround the issue in the code, if you notice, even if they didn't
&gt; upgrade the POM, the issue won't be reproduced by the riak java client.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On 24/09/12 20:13, Deepak Balasubramanyam wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Guido,
&gt;
&gt; Reading the comments on that pull request, I get the feeling that pcl is
&gt; suggesting that upgrading to 4.2.2 is another way to solve the problem. I
&gt; dont think that route was taken to resolve the issue. Quoting his
&gt; comment...
&gt;
&gt; upgrading your dependency to 4.2.2 once it becomes available will 
&gt; \\*also\\*resolve the issue
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; I dont see a change to pom.xml during this pull. I tried the riak-client
&gt; 1.0.6 and it still depends on 4.1.x. So the upgrade would be necessary to
&gt; fix the memory leak.
&gt;
&gt; Thanks
&gt; Deepak Bala
&gt;
&gt; On Tue, Sep 25, 2012 at 12:35 AM, Guido Medina 
&gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Deepak,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I think that was fixed on the following pull request but, you would
&gt;&gt; have to compile your own client from github which is easy; or, did you get
&gt;&gt; the new 1.0.6? I'm not sure if it is already available at maven repos,
&gt;&gt; anyways, there is a lot going on in the riak client in java, I would
&gt;&gt; suggest you to keep an eye on the github, many good bugs getting fixed
&gt;&gt; quickly.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; https://github.com/basho/riak-java-client/pull/159
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Best regards,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Guido
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On 24/09/12 19:45, Deepak Balasubramanyam wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; My servers complain about a leaky apache DateUtils class during hot
&gt;&gt; deployments. This is a known 
&gt;&gt; bugin http 4.1.x and 
&gt;&gt; has been fixed in 4.2.x. Can the next version of
&gt;&gt; riak-client be updated to include the newer HTTP client (the
&gt;&gt; current version is 4.1.1 ) ? Is the riak-client compatible with httpclient
&gt;&gt; 4.2.x as it is ?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks
&gt;&gt; Deepak Bala
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing 
&gt;&gt; listriak-users@lists.basho.comhttp://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

