---
title: "Re: speeding up riaksearch precommit indexing"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-06-21T14:43:40-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03768"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg03767"
author_name: "Sylvain Niles"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-06-21T14:43:40-07:00
---


Why not write to a queue bucket with a timestamp and have a queue
processor move writes to the "final" bucket once they're over a
certain age? It can dedup/validate at that point too.


On Tue, Jun 21, 2011 at 2:26 PM, Les Mikesell  wrote:
&gt; Where can I find the redis hacks that get close to clustering?  Would
&gt; membase work with syncronous replication on a pair of nodes for a reliable
&gt; atomic 'check and set' operation to dedup redundant data before writing to
&gt; riak?   Conceptually I like the 'smart client' fault tolerance of
&gt; memcache/membase and restricting it to a pair of machines would keep the
&gt; client configuration reasonable.
&gt;
&gt;  -Les
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On 6/18/2011 6:54 PM, John D. Rowell wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; The "real" queues like HornetQ and others can take care of this without
&gt;&gt; a single point of failure but it's a pain (in my opinion) to set them up
&gt;&gt; that way, and usually with all the cluster and failover features active
&gt;&gt; they get quite slow for writes.We use Redis for this because it's
&gt;&gt; simpler and lightweight. The problem is that there is no real clustering
&gt;&gt; option for Redis today, even thought there are some hacks that get
&gt;&gt; close. When we cannot afford a single point of failure or any downtime,
&gt;&gt; we tend to use MongoDB for simple queues. It has full cluster support
&gt;&gt; and the performance is pretty close to what you get with Redis in this
&gt;&gt; use case.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; OTOH you could keep it all Riak and setup a separate small cluster with
&gt;&gt; a RAM backend and use that as a queue, probably with similar
&gt;&gt; performance. The idea here is that you can scale these clusters (the
&gt;&gt; "queue" and the indexed production data) independently in response to
&gt;&gt; your load patterns, and have optimum hardware and I/O specs for the
&gt;&gt; different cluster nodes.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; -jd
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; 2011/6/18 Les Mikesell &gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;    Is there a good way to handle something like this with redundancy
&gt;&gt;    all the way through?  On simple key/value items you could have two
&gt;&gt;    readers write the same things to riak and let bitcask cleanup
&gt;&gt;    eventually discard one, but with indexing you probably need to use
&gt;&gt;    some sort of failover approach up front.  Do any of those queue
&gt;&gt;    managers handle that without adding their own single point of
&gt;&gt;    failure?  Assuming there are unique identifiers in the items being
&gt;&gt;    written, you might use the CAS feature of redis to arbitrate writes
&gt;&gt;    into its queue, but what happens when the redis node fails?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;      -Les
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;    On 6/17/11 11:48 PM, John D. Rowell wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;        Why not decouple the twitter stream processing from the
&gt;&gt;        indexing? More than
&gt;&gt;        likely you have a single process consuming the spritzer stream,
&gt;&gt;        so you can put
&gt;&gt;        the fetched results in a queue (hornetq, beanstalk, or even a
&gt;&gt;        simple Redis
&gt;&gt;        queue) and then have workers pull from the queue and insert into
&gt;&gt;        Riak. You could
&gt;&gt;        run one worker per node and thus insert in parallel into all
&gt;&gt;        nodes. If you need
&gt;&gt;        free CPU (e.g. for searches), just throttle the workers to some
&gt;&gt;        sane level. If
&gt;&gt;        you see the queue getting bigger, add another Riak node (and
&gt;&gt;        thus another local
&gt;&gt;        worker).
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;        -jd
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;        2011/6/13 Steve Webb 
&gt;&gt;        &gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;            Ok, I've changed my two VMs to each have:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;            3 CPUs, 1GB ram, 120GB disk
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;            I'm ingesting the twitter spritzer stream (about 10-20
&gt;&gt;        tweets per second,
&gt;&gt;            approx 2k of data per tweet).  One bucket is storing the
&gt;&gt;        non-indexed tweets
&gt;&gt;            in full.  Another bucket is storing the indexed tweet
&gt;&gt;        string, id, date and
&gt;&gt;            username.  A maximum of 20 clients can be hitting the
&gt;&gt;        'cluster' at any one time.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;            I'm using n\\_val=2 so there is replication going on behind
&gt;&gt;        the scenes.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;            I'm using a hardware load-balancer to distribute the work
&gt;&gt;        amongst the two
&gt;&gt;            nodes and now I'm seeing about 75% CPU usage as opposed to
&gt;&gt;        100% on one node
&gt;&gt;            and 50% on the replicating-only node.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;            I've monitored the VM over the last few days and it seems to
&gt;&gt;        be mostly
&gt;&gt;            CPU-bound.  The disk I/O is low.  The Network I/O is low.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;            Q: Can I change the pre-commit to a post-commit trigger or
&gt;&gt;        something perhaps
&gt;&gt;            or will that make any difference at all?  I'm ok if the
&gt;&gt;        tweet stuff doesn't
&gt;&gt;            get indexed immediately and there's a slight lag in indexing
&gt;&gt;        if it saves on CPU.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;        \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt;        riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;        riak-users@lists.basho.com 
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;  http://lists.basho.com/\\_\\_mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_\\_\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;  
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;    \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt;    riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;    riak-users@lists.basho.com 
&gt;&gt;    http://lists.basho.com/\\_\\_mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_\\_\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;    
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
