---
title: "Re: RiakSearch 14.0 All Gets/Puts Timing out on a single node system."
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-03-16T10:50:31-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg02665"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg02664"
author_name: "Dan Reverri"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-03-16T10:50:31-07:00
---


You shouldn't need to recompile to make configuration changes. The
"rel/riaksearch/etc/app.config" file should be referenced by Riak Search
whenever the node is started.

When compiling a release the default values used for
"rel/riaksearch/etc/app.config" are defined by "rel/vars.config".

Thanks,
Dan

Daniel Reverri
Developer Advocate
Basho Technologies, Inc.
d...@basho.com


On Wed, Mar 16, 2011 at 10:40 AM, J T  wrote:

&gt; Unfortunately not, the log files are suspiciously quiet .. but I'm
&gt; reasonably certain that I'm looking in the right place.
&gt;
&gt; However, I think I fixed the problem.
&gt;
&gt; After doing a \\*make rel\\* I went in and modified the etc config to have
&gt; riak use an external ip address and I think its that that caused the
&gt; problem.
&gt;
&gt; Instead I needed to make the change to \\*rel/vars.config\\* and then redo the
&gt; \\*make rel\\* leading me to suspect that the values are actually compiled in
&gt; somewhere and not just read from a config file on startup.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Wed, Mar 16, 2011 at 4:41 PM, Dan Reverri  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi JT,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Are there any error messages in your Riak Search log files?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt; Dan
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Daniel Reverri
&gt;&gt; Developer Advocate
&gt;&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt;&gt; d...@basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Tue, Mar 15, 2011 at 5:13 PM, J T  wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Hi,
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; I was running an older version of riak (v12) for a while and recently
&gt;&gt;&gt; upgraded to riak\\_search (v14).
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; I can connect to the node, I can ping it. But any put or get results in a
&gt;&gt;&gt; timeout.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; There is a difference in deployment, previously I was running it on the
&gt;&gt;&gt; same host as the client and accessing directly using the erlang client api
&gt;&gt;&gt; (not pb).
&gt;&gt;&gt; Now, I moved the node on a separate machine and can connect to it both
&gt;&gt;&gt; from the original host and also locally on the same host.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Following the instructions in README.txt to test, results in a pong from
&gt;&gt;&gt; the ping but timeouts (after a long delay).
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; I'm a bit stumped. Any tips ?
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; JT.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

