---
title: "Re: [ANN] Riak Release 0.11.0"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-06-09T13:22:01-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00545"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg00544"
author_name: "David Smith"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-06-09T13:22:01-07:00
---


Jason,

Our testing has shown bitcask to have as good recovery as DETS (the previous
default backend), and MUCH better overall performance. However, I'm going to
stop short of saying definitively that the recovery of bitcask is as good
as/better than innostore, simply because we don't have enough data to
support it...yet. :)

I will say, however, that the append-only nature of bitcask minimizes the
opportunity to lose and/or corrupt data, not to mention obviating the need
for log files ala InnoDB.

D.

On Wed, Jun 9, 2010 at 1:59 PM, Jason J. W. Williams &lt;
jasonjwwilli...@gmail.com&gt; wrote:

&gt; Does the bitcask back end handle crash recovery as well as the
&gt; InnoStore backend?
&gt;
&gt; -J
&gt;
&gt; On Wed, Jun 9, 2010 at 1:55 PM, Jon Meredith  wrote:
&gt; &gt; Hello, Riak users. We are excited to announce the release of Riak
&gt; version
&gt; &gt; 0.11.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Pre-built installations and source tarballs are available at:
&gt; &gt; http://downloads.basho.com/
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Release notes are at (also copied below):
&gt; &gt; http://downloads.basho.com/riak/riak-0.11/riak-0.11.0.txt
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; IMPORTANT: If you are upgrading an existing Riak cluster, please read the
&gt; &gt; transition document at
&gt; &gt; http://bitbucket.org/basho/riak/src/4235ceeb8d6/TRANSITION
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Cheers,
&gt; &gt; The Basho Riak Team
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; -------------------------
&gt; &gt; Riak 0.11.0 Release Notes
&gt; &gt; -------------------------
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Bitcask has arrived as the new default backend for Riak. Bitcask is
&gt; Basho's
&gt; &gt; new key/value store that should provide good balanced performance out
&gt; &gt; of the box on most systems. Read more about it from the initial
&gt; &gt; announcement here http://blog.basho.com/2010/04/27/hello,-bitcask/
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Users that wish to upgrade from another backend will need to backup their
&gt; &gt; cluster (using riak-admin) before changing the backend in app.config,
&gt; &gt; restart
&gt; &gt; riak and restore from the backup into bitcask.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; The protocol buffers client (PBC) interface has been enhanced to
&gt; &gt; add map/reduce support and access to simple bucket properties. The
&gt; &gt; erlang and python clients have been updated accordingly.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Put operations using the local erlang client that request a returnbody
&gt; &gt; have received a performance enhancement. Internally the put operation
&gt; &gt; now returns the body directly, so an additional get is no longer
&gt; &gt; required. The PBC and HTTP interfaces have been updated to use
&gt; &gt; this new mechanism.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Enhancements
&gt; &gt; --------
&gt; &gt; 58 - provide default content-type of application/octet-stream if none
&gt; &gt; present in the object.
&gt; &gt; 74 - create ring directory if non-existant
&gt; &gt; 142 - riak-admin leave restored
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Bugs Fixed
&gt; &gt; ----------
&gt; &gt; 35 - {error, blah} messages are now passed on to javascript map/reduce
&gt; jobs
&gt; &gt; 104 - missing bucket/key into map/reduce job crashed it. Fixed.
&gt; &gt; 193 - list keys sometimes uses downed nodes. Fixed.
&gt; &gt; 208 - deleting a key with a post-commit hook set crashed riak. Fixed.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt;

