---
title: "Re: Restart - Rails 3 + Ripple"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-08-31T10:18:20-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00988"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg00984"
author_name: "Sean Cribbs"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-08-31T10:18:20-07:00
---


Brian,

Glad to hear you're still interested in using Ripple with Rails 3.

The testing harness is slated for the 0.9 release. I wanted it "now" but that 
would mean delaying the next release too much. The current plan is to give the 
harness the location of your Riak installation, and it will start Riak up with 
a memory backend, and bounce it when you tell it to. This will obviate the need 
for the "delete bucket" functionality, although we're still considering it.

riak-qc.js uses qc.js's conventions, for better or worse. I initially tried 
unit-testing frameworks for Javascript, but most had too much dependence on the 
BOM, which is pointless for Riak functions. QC fits nicely because of the 
isolated, side-effect free nature of map and reduce functions, and the 
declarative nature of the tests.

Sean Cribbs 
Developer Advocate
Basho Technologies, Inc.
http://basho.com/

On Aug 31, 2010, at 12:41 PM, Brian Kaney wrote:

&gt; Hi Everyone,
&gt; 
&gt; I was going to post this in IRC, but thought the mailing-list would be better.
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; Having Rails 3.0.0 (and Bundler 1.0.0) released, and seeing Sean's nearly 
&gt; realtime update of Ripple, I'm inspired to restart working on a shelved 
&gt; Rails3 + Ripple project. I've made some good progress, even got my Rails 3 
&gt; app to working with Ripple and Inherited-Resources.
&gt; 
&gt; I am now turning to getting my test tooling setup and have a few questions:
&gt; 
&gt; \\* Did the "delete all object by bucket" feature make any headway? The 
&gt; specific use-case for me is to (quickly) rollback to a fresh, predictable 
&gt; database for testing (rspec, cucumber). With RDBMSs, using transactions and 
&gt; not committing works nicely. I was thinking of forking and patching 
&gt; http://github.com/bmabey/database\\_cleaner to support Riak.
&gt; 
&gt; \\* I forked and started playing with http://github.com/seancribbs/riak-qc.js. 
&gt; Is there any more documentation or examples (BTW, the example in the README 
&gt; has 'describe("Property...', I think it ought to be 'define("Property...'). 
&gt; Or are there any other tools that could help TDD'ing custom M/R functions?
&gt; 
&gt; \\* Is anyone else working on Ripple + Rails 3?
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; --
&gt; Thanks!
&gt; Brian
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com


\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

