---
title: "Re: C++ Riak client?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-04-08T18:18:08-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg02945"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg02944"
author_name: "Scott Gonyea"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-04-08T18:18:08-07:00
---


They are the same and you can actually see me plugging into the C++ code here:

https://github.com/sgonyea/pabst/tree/master/ext

But as part of an Objective-C library (called ObjFW). So, the code is actually 
an Objective-C++ wrapper around the C++ PB code, that exchanges messages with 
Objective-C code (that hooks into Ruby).

I believe Sean Cribbs has some initial C++-wrapper code in his Ripple repo... 
Though he eventually abandoned it after C++ left him permanently cross-eyed (I 
think that's why).

Scott

On Apr 8, 2011, at 5:20 PM, Mike Oxford wrote:

&gt; Be careful here..
&gt; 
&gt; I do not thing Riak's "protocol buffers" are the same as Google's protocol 
&gt; buffers.
&gt; Google's does bit-level packing and some other tricks that Riak does not do, 
&gt; even though they both use the ".proto" file extension and very very similar 
&gt; proto semantics.
&gt; 
&gt; That said, if they ARE the same, then you can take the .proto files and 
&gt; generate C++ classes, and use the secondary library "protobuf-c" to generate 
&gt; C structs for the wire format.
&gt; 
&gt; -mox
&gt; 
&gt; On Fri, Apr 8, 2011 at 4:43 PM, David Leimbach  wrote:
&gt; Spent a little time poking at this today... Kind of surprised that there was 
&gt; no message defined for PingReq or for listing buckets.
&gt; 
&gt; I realize these messages really have no usable payload, and just sort of have 
&gt; a tag and length, but for completeness it kind of feels like they should be 
&gt; there.
&gt; 
&gt; Of course I'm not a Protocol Buffers expert in any sense, so I can't say 
&gt; whether this is a normal kind of choice or not.
&gt; 
&gt; Dave
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Fri, Apr 8, 2011 at 2:49 PM, Scott Gonyea  wrote:
&gt; If we had this then a C-wrapper would be that much more attainable. So, the 
&gt; author of such a lib would be a superstar in my book :).
&gt; 
&gt; Sent from my iPhone
&gt; 
&gt; On Apr 8, 2011, at 1:46 PM, David Leimbach  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; &gt; I've been writing a bit of code in Haskell to push data to Riak, and the 
&gt; &gt; bindings are pretty easy to use (Thanks Brian!), but getting penetration at 
&gt; &gt; my company for Haskell is going to take a little time.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; As such I'm just wondering if anyone knows of anyone working on a protocol 
&gt; &gt; buffers version of a Riak client in C++, or if this is going to be 
&gt; &gt; something I'll have to take on.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; I've found a few generic looking C++ projects that use Boost's asynchronous 
&gt; &gt; IO stuff with protocol buffers to make an RPC system, but I'm not sure if 
&gt; &gt; any of those are implicitly compatible.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Guess I'm just looking for a pointer...
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Dave
&gt; &gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

