---
title: "Re: Best practice for using erlang modules in riak?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-05-27T12:16:23-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03460"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg03400"
author_name: "Sylvain Niles"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-05-27T12:16:23-07:00
---


Still looking for advice on this, additionally I'm looking for the
correct way to call the erlang modules from Ripple. I've tried calling
it from a reduce like so:

reduced = 
Riak::MapReduce.new(Ripple.client).add(a-bucket').map("function(v){return
[[v.values[0].data], [v.bucket, v.key]];}", :keep =&gt;
true).reduce(["my\\_module","my\\_function"], :keep =&gt; true).run

and I can see that it never gets called, just returns [].

I can call the module while attached to a Riak console in the cluster
and it works exactly as expected given the exact output of the
previous map: [["value"], ["bucket", "key"]]

Any pointers would be greatly appreciated! If there's any open source
code out there using ripple in this fashion I'd love a pointer!

Thanks,
-Sylvain

On Tue, May 24, 2011 at 6:55 PM, Sylvain Niles  wrote:
&gt; So I've seen a few well written examples of erlang map or reduce
&gt; functions in the contrib section of the wiki/github but the missing
&gt; piece of glue for me is: Where do I compile from? I've done a lot of
&gt; ejabberd development and generally I just throw it in the src
&gt; directory, add a config param to the ejabberd.conf to load my new
&gt; module at startup, make install, and I'm done. Should I be deploying
&gt; my modules to /deps/riak\\_core/src/?
&gt;
&gt; The wiki has this note:
&gt;
&gt; Distributing Erlang MapReduce Code
&gt;
&gt; Any modules and functions you use in your Erlang MapReduce calls must
&gt; be available on all nodes in the cluster. You can add them in Erlang
&gt; applications by specifying the -pz option in vm.args or by adding the
&gt; path to the add\\_paths setting in app.config.
&gt;
&gt; But the vm.args page does not list the valid config format/options for
&gt; the -pz option. Is the add\\_paths behavior such that a valid beam in
&gt; that dir will automatically be loaded on startup and all exported
&gt; functions available? What about live code updates of internally
&gt; developed modules?
&gt;
&gt; Thanks in advance!
&gt;
&gt; -Sylvain
&gt;

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

