---
title: "Re: Riak Clustering Changes in 1.0"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-09-07T18:30:32-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04599"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04598"
author_name: "Alexander Sicular"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-09-07T18:30:32-07:00
---


Seconded, force-remove.

@siculars
http://siculars.posterous.com

Sent from my rotary phone.
On Sep 7, 2011 9:14 PM, "Nicholas Campbell" 
wrote:
&gt; +1 to force-remove. Clear is better than less typing (to a point).
&gt;
&gt; This sounds great!
&gt;
&gt; - Nick Campbell
&gt;
&gt; http://digitaltumbleweed.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Wed, Sep 7, 2011 at 8:12 PM, Joseph Blomstedt  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Given that 1.0 prerelease packages are now available, I wanted to
&gt;&gt; mention some changes to Riak's clustering capabilities in 1.0. In
&gt;&gt; particular, there are some subtle semantic differences in the
&gt;&gt; riak-admin commands. More complete docs will be updated in the near
&gt;&gt; future, but I hope a quick email suffices for now.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; [nodeB/riak-admin join nodeA] is now strictly one-way. It joins nodeB
&gt;&gt; to the cluster that nodeA is a member of. This is semantically
&gt;&gt; different than pre-1.0 Riak in which join essentially joined clusters
&gt;&gt; together rather than joined a node to a cluster. As part of this
&gt;&gt; change, the joining node (nodeB in this case) must be a singleton
&gt;&gt; (1-node) cluster.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; In pre-1.0, leave and remove were essentially the same operation, with
&gt;&gt; leave just being an alias for 'remove this-node'. This has changed.
&gt;&gt; Leave and remove are now very different operations.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; [nodeB/riak-admin leave] is the only safe way to have a node leave the
&gt;&gt; cluster, and it must be executed by the node that you want to remove.
&gt;&gt; In this case, nodeB will start leaving the cluster, and will not leave
&gt;&gt; the cluster until after it has handed off all its data. Even if nodeB
&gt;&gt; is restarted (crashed/shutdown/whatever), it will remain in the leave
&gt;&gt; state and continue handing off partitions until done. After handoff,
&gt;&gt; it will leave the cluster, and eventually shutdown.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; [nodeA/riak-admin remove nodeB] immediately removes nodeB from the
&gt;&gt; cluster, without handing off its data. All replicas held by nodeB are
&gt;&gt; therefore lost, and will need to be re-generated through read-repair.
&gt;&gt; Use this command carefully. It's intended for nodes that are
&gt;&gt; permanently unrecoverable and therefore for which handoff doesn't make
&gt;&gt; sense. By the final 1.0 release, this command may be renamed
&gt;&gt; "force-remove" just to make the distinction clear.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; There are now two new commands that provide additional insight into
&gt;&gt; the cluster. [riak-admin member\\_status] and [riak-admin ring\\_status].
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Underneath, the clustering protocol has been mostly re-written. The
&gt;&gt; new approach has the following advantages:
&gt;&gt; 1. It is no longer necessary to wait on [riak-admin ringready] in
&gt;&gt; between adding/removing nodes from the cluster, and adding/removing is
&gt;&gt; also much more sound/graceful. Starting up 16 nodes and issuing
&gt;&gt; [nodeX: riak-admin join node1] for X=1:16 should just work.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; 2. Data is first transferred to new partition owners before handing
&gt;&gt; over partition ownership. This change fixes numerous bugs, such as
&gt;&gt; 404s/not\\_founds during ownership changes. The Ring/Pending columns in
&gt;&gt; [riak-admin member\\_status] visualize this at a high-level, and the
&gt;&gt; full transfer status in [riak-admin ring\\_status] provide additional
&gt;&gt; insight.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; 3. All partition ownership decisions are now made by a single node in
&gt;&gt; the cluster (the claimant). Any node can be the claimant, and the duty
&gt;&gt; is automatically taken over if the previous claimant is removed from
&gt;&gt; the cluster. [riak-admin member\\_status] will list the current
&gt;&gt; claimant.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; 4. Handoff related to ownership changes can now occur under load;
&gt;&gt; hinted handoff still only occurs when a vnode is inactive. This change
&gt;&gt; allows a cluster to scale up/down under load, although this needs to
&gt;&gt; be further benchmarked and tuned before 1.0.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; To support all of the above, a new limitation has been introduced.
&gt;&gt; Cluster changes (member addition/removal, ring rebalance, etc) can
&gt;&gt; only occur when all nodes are up and reachable. [riak-admin
&gt;&gt; ring\\_status] will complain when this is not the case. If a node is
&gt;&gt; down, you must issue [riak-admin down ] to mark the node as
&gt;&gt; down, and the remaining nodes will then proceed to converge as usual.
&gt;&gt; Once the down node comes back online, it will automatically
&gt;&gt; re-integrate into the cluster. However, there is nothing preventing
&gt;&gt; client requests being served by a down node before it re-integrates.
&gt;&gt; Before issuing [down ], make sure to update your load balancers
&gt;&gt; / connection pools to not include this node. Future releases of Riak
&gt;&gt; may make offlining a node an automatic operation, but it's a
&gt;&gt; user-initiated action in 1.0.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; -Joe
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

