---
title: "tools for debugging clients?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-01-17T21:19:09-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg02018"
author_name: "Gary William Flake"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-01-17T21:19:09-08:00
---


I am using the python client api and in some of my runs python was crashing. 
My gut reaction was that it was probably some untested corner case (I am doing 
millions of insertions) or that the python client was buggy and that I would 
eventually just switch over to another client need be.

But I am now wondering if the fault is actually in the riak instance and not 
the client. Here's why: the error is now occurring with much higher frequency 
(after thousands of insertions instead of millions), but the really suspicious 
thing is that independent of the data, the error is reporting a short read of 
exactly the same size.

For example, here is the error from the crash.

Traceback (most recent call last):
 File "wikipedia.py", line 730, in 
 main()
 File "wikipedia.py", line 715, in main
 item.add\\_link(bucket.get(link), 'link') 
 File "build/bdist.macosx-10.6-universal/egg/riak/bucket.py", line 245, in get
 File "build/bdist.macosx-10.6-universal/egg/riak/riak\\_object.py", line 290, 
in reload
 File "build/bdist.macosx-10.6-universal/egg/riak/transports/pbc.py", line 
157, in get
 File "build/bdist.macosx-10.6-universal/egg/riak/transports/pbc.py", line 
349, in recv\\_msg
 File "build/bdist.macosx-10.6-universal/egg/riak/transports/pbc.py", line 
399, in recv\\_pkt
riak.RiakError: 'Socket returned short read 7928 - expected 8192'

I am guessing the 8192 is just an 8K buffer, but the short read of 7928 -- 
that's the number that keeps popping up. Different data, short read, expected 
8192, but got 7928 bytes.

While typing all of the above, it happened again... this time after 1124 
writes. And my python code gets restarted each time, so the odds of its 
internal structures causing the problems seems low.

Thoughts?

-- GWF




\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

