---
title: "Re: alphanumeric sort"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-05-12T08:40:50-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03318"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg03317"
author_name: "Eric Moritz"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-05-12T08:40:50-07:00
---


That's what I get for coding in gmail, that function signature
obviously should be:

Riak.reduceSortByField(values, key) { ... }

On Thu, May 12, 2011 at 2:46 AM, Eric Moritz  wrote:
&gt; The reason why a custom function is needed is because he wants to sort
&gt; on a key in the javascript object.  If it was a list of strings,
&gt; calling .sort() would be fine.  We need a
&gt;
&gt; Riak.reduceSortByField(values, name) {
&gt;    return values.sort(function(x,y) {
&gt;      if(a[key] == b[key]) return 0;
&gt;      return a[key] &gt; b[key] ? 1 : -1;
&gt;     });
&gt; }
&gt;
&gt; On Thu, May 12, 2011 at 2:21 AM, Claus Guttesen  wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt; Iirc, "sort()" is by default lexographic in JavaScript so an added function
&gt;&gt;&gt; is not necessary. The added function is specifically intended for a custom
&gt;&gt;&gt; sort, ie. numerical.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; You could simply do something like:
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; return v['key'].sort()
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Try that out and lemme know if it works as you expect.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I tried it but it didn't work. And I believe sort expects a list like
&gt;&gt; [3, 5, 8, 1] but I have an array with json-formatted objects and have
&gt;&gt; to inspect each element as described in the link I referred to in my
&gt;&gt; OP.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; regards
&gt;&gt; Claus
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; When lenity and cruelty play for a kingdom,
&gt;&gt; the gentler gamester is the soonest winner.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Shakespeare
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; twitter.com/kometen
&gt;&gt;
&gt;

