---
title: "Riak Recap for 9/17 - 9/19"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-09-20T10:38:24-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01108"
author_name: "Mark Phillips"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-09-20T10:38:24-07:00
---


Morning, Afternoon, Evening to all,

Here's a short Recap from this past weekend.

Enjoy,

Mark

Community Manager
Basho Technologies
wiki.basho.com
twitter.com/pharkmillups

----

Riak Recap for 9/17 - 9/19

1) Q --- Will Riak Search use Riak or is it a separate technology?
(from jpartogi via #riak)

 A --- Both - it's a product on its own, but it uses riak\\_core for
distribution, and riak\\_kv to store a few things.

2) Q --- Who knows how can I update only one value in json-type
document (for example: {"cool": "1", "test": 2} - update only "test")?
:) Does it really require updating the entire collection? %) (from
Guest4390 via #riak)

 A --- It's not a collection, it's a single opaque value. You must
update the whole thing at once.

3) Q --- I have a Webmachine application which will be talking to
Riak. I was going to put application and controller logic in that
application and i am wondering if should instead be creating a "core"
OTP application with the business style logic in it and have the
webmachine app talk to that app which in turn talks to Riak? is that
the general approach that is taken? (from TheColonial via #riak)

 A --- We recommend going with the latter approach. You're better
off to create a core app that talks to Webmachine and Riak separately.

4) Sean Cribbs spent some time hacking on an in-memory test server for
Ripple that dumps its data at the end of test runs. This should help
those of you who were looking for a straightforward way to prototype
and test your Ruby apps.

Check it out here ---&gt;
http://github.com/seancribbs/ripple/compare/4737d67...ed9a65e

