---
title: "Re: Listen to Put Event in Riak"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-11-17T17:19:17-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05648"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg05632"
author_name: "Eric Fong"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-11-17T17:19:17-08:00
---


Hi

I want to use Riak to remove the single point of failure.
As I know, if you want to remove the single point of failure in RabbitMQ,
you also need another cluster system or some complicated setting which I
think is too heavy.

So far, I think use the post-commit hook to directly kick off the external
process will be a simple and enough for me (Not sure what will it will be).

I think it would be nice to have a built-in distributed list or
queue (special bucket or record) implementation (like Redis?) in Riak will
be really nice feature.

Thanks
Eric

On Thu, Nov 17, 2011 at 11:57 PM, Jon Brisbin  wrote:

&gt; This is a situation similar to one I had in mind when I wrote the Riak -&gt;
&gt; RabbitMQ integration. Think of it as a distributed database trigger. It is
&gt; a post-commit hook, as Russell mentions being the way to achieve what
&gt; you're looking for, but this post-commit hooks sends out an AMQP message
&gt; telling subscribers about new data coming into Riak.
&gt;
&gt; https://github.com/jbrisbin/riak-rabbitmq-commit-hooks
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Thanks!
&gt;
&gt; Jon Brisbin
&gt; http//jbrisbin.com
&gt;
&gt; ------------------------------
&gt;
&gt; \\*From: \\*"Eric Fong" 
&gt; \\*To: \\*riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; \\*Sent: \\*Wednesday, November 16, 2011 8:59:00 PM
&gt; \\*Subject: \\*Listen to Put Event in Riak
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Hi
&gt;
&gt; I have Riak servers A, B and C.
&gt; As I know, assume I put my data into Riak server A via HTTP interface,
&gt; I will hashed and determined to be stored in some other servers. May be
&gt; finally stored into B and C.
&gt;
&gt; What I want is listen to the upload event.
&gt; And one and only one of them A, B, C kick off some external process.
&gt;
&gt; Any API for that ?
&gt; Or I should have watching processes in all A, B, C servers (will have race
&gt; condition and locking problem)?
&gt;
&gt; Sorry, I am new to Riak. I may miss some important components.
&gt; Please point that out to me.
&gt;
&gt; Thanks
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Best Regards,
&gt; Eric Fong
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;


-- 
Best Regards,
Eric Fong
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

