---
title: "Re: Riak Search Precommit Hook in 1.0"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-09-21T12:01:25-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04821"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04817"
author_name: "Dan Reverri"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-09-21T12:01:25-07:00
---


On Wed, Sep 21, 2011 at 11:47 AM, Dan Reverri  wrote:

&gt; Hi Greg,
&gt;
&gt; The "install" command has been removed from "search-cmd". The new strategy
&gt; is as follows:
&gt; \\* The "search" bucket property must be "true" in order for the search
&gt; precommit to be executed
&gt; \\* If the "precommit" property does NOT include the search precommit hook it
&gt; will be inserted at the beginning of the precommit list
&gt;

Correction: the search precommit is added to the end by default.


&gt; \\* If the "precommit" property does include the search precommit hook it
&gt; will be left in it's defined location
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; Dan
&gt;
&gt; Daniel Reverri
&gt; Developer Advocate
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; d...@basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Wed, Sep 21, 2011 at 11:09 AM, Greg Pascale  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; A few questions
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; 1) Is this fix in the RC1 build that just came out today?
&gt;&gt; 2) How exactly do search-cmd install, the "search" bucket property and the
&gt;&gt; precommit hook fit together now? I'm a bit unclear on what I actually need
&gt;&gt; to do to enable search on a bucket.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; Greg
&gt;&gt; Clipboard
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Tuesday, September 20, 2011 at 3:42 PM, Greg Pascale wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Man, it took a whole day after I complained about this to get it fixed?
&gt;&gt; You guys are such slackers! :)
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks a bunch!
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; Greg
&gt;&gt; Clipboard
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Tuesday, September 20, 2011 at 1:47 PM, Andrew Thompson wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Tue, Sep 20, 2011 at 10:53:28AM -0700, Greg Pascale wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi Jon,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks for getting back to me.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I'm doing full-text indexing, but I don't need to keep the text around
&gt;&gt; once my object has been indexed, so I wrote a second precommit hook to
&gt;&gt; remove the text from the object. This reduces the size of my objects
&gt;&gt; drastically (since text tends to be the largest part) and has given us
&gt;&gt; substantial perf gains in our tests.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I just pushed a fix for this. It should be present in the next 1.0
&gt;&gt; prerelease.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; https://github.com/basho/riak\\_search/pull/87
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Andrew
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

