---
title: "Re: upgrade process?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-11-23T10:22:43-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01611"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg01609"
author_name: "David Smith"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-11-23T10:22:43-08:00
---


On Tue, Nov 23, 2010 at 8:58 AM, Colin Surprenant
 wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Would upgrading (rolling or offline) sequentially from 0.10 to 0.11 to
&gt; 0.12 be "easier" to manage potential compatibility issues?

As on of my colleagues (Grant) just pointed out to me, a rolling
upgrade of 0.10 -&gt; 0.13 won't work due to some internal messaging
changes; you'll need to take the whole cluster down after all.
However, I do not know of any major changes to the storage formats
(particularly with innostore), so you should be able to just upgrade
in place and bring the cluster back up.

As I said before, though, testing it would be a wise idea. :) (Yes,
there's a pattern here...:))

&gt; I'm using innostore, with a 3 nodes cluster holding ~250GB of data
&gt; each. Using the riak-admin backup/restore is just too slow to be
&gt; usable in my environment. Would innodump/innoload be any faster? Could
&gt; I consider setting up a new 0.13 ring, use innodump on my 0.10 nodes
&gt; and innoload on the 0.13??

innodump is going to be much faster than riak-admin backup, I believe,
since it's dumping data at a much lower-level.

Yes, you could setup a whole new cluster...but that really shouldn't
be necessary. If I were backing up your cluster, here's what I would
do (off the cuff):

1. Take down one node at a time and innodump the data so I have a
known good backup
2. For each node, backup the ring and any other config info
3. Take down cluster; upgrade in place (i.e. try to use the existing
config, ring and data)
4. Bring cluster back up
4a. If there are problems when bringing cluster back up, revert to
previous version/config. Data \\_should\\_ be ok, but if push comes to
shove you'll have to reload via innoload.

As noted before, test..test..test before doing this in a production
environment. :)

D.

