---
title: "Re: KeyFilter Usage"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-02-23T08:08:15-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06711"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06708"
author_name: "Rajat Mathur"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-02-23T08:08:15-08:00
---


I had looked into Secondary indexes, but had trouble implementing AND and
OR type of queries in\\* RIAK-JAVA-CLIENT\\*
I suppose Secondary indexes doesn't support search on multiple indexes
using OR or AND for\\* Java Client.\\*

Also what are the ways for doing queries like ORDER BY i.e. how to sort the
result based on certain parameter ?

On Thu, Feb 23, 2012 at 7:08 PM, Jeremiah Peschka &lt;
jeremiah.pesc...@gmail.com&gt; wrote:

&gt; KeyFilters filter by the key you use to identify it in Riak. That is to
&gt; say the key in key-value.
&gt;
&gt; If I key my users by name and I want to find everyone named Rajat, I would
&gt; perform a StartsWith KeyFilter operation to find all of those records.
&gt;
&gt; The downside to KeyFilters is that they must scan every record. If you are
&gt; using Bitcask, this isn't as much of a problem because that can will happen
&gt; in RAM. However with other back ends, that scan will have to touch disk and
&gt; you'll pay that I/O penalty.
&gt;
&gt; Depending on your overall data size and implemntation choices, this may or
&gt; may not be a problem for you.
&gt;
&gt; I recommend looking into secondary indexes as well. This gives you the
&gt; ability to define your own metadata however you want and use that for
&gt; querying.
&gt;
&gt; ---
&gt; Jeremiah Peschka, Managing Director, Brent Ozar PLF, LLC
&gt; Microsoft SQL Server MVP
&gt;
&gt; On Feb 23, 2012, at 12:25 AM, Rajat Mathur  wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Can somebody tell me how to use KeyFilters [with/without MapReduce ] like,
&gt;
&gt; LogicalAndFilter,GreaterThanFilter, StartsWithFilter etc..
&gt; \\*
&gt; I am not able to get on what key-values do they Filter on ??
&gt; \\*\\*
&gt; -- \\*
&gt; \\*Rajat Mathur
&gt; B.Tech (IT) Final Year
&gt; IIIT Allahabad
&gt;
&gt; 09945990291
&gt;
&gt; Find me @ Facebook 
&gt; Follow me @ Twitter \\*
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;


-- 
\\*Rajat Mathur
B.Tech (IT) Final Year
IIIT Allahabad

09945990291

Find me @ Facebook 
Follow me @ Twitter \\*
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

