---
title: "Re: [ANN] Riak CS"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-03-28T06:12:19-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07062"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg07060"
author_name: "Andrey V. Martyanov"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-03-28T06:12:19-07:00
---


Hi Mark,

Thank you for sharing the information! AWS S3 is awesome, but it has one
major disadvantage - it's not possible to set custom headers. There is a
big thread on their forum [1], but despite of many complaints they haven't
fixed it. It's not possible to control CORS and the only working solution
is flash uploading with xml-based policy. Also, when you directly upload
files, it's possible to setup redirect url and upon successful upload S3
service redirects and attach file specific arguments to the url, but upon
unsuccessful upload it shows you an xml page with an error. I don't know
why it work the way it works, but it seems so easy to customize their
service backend and provide these useful features to their clients. It
confuses me. Now we have a proxy server that proxies the uploads to S3 and
sets custom headers. So, my question. Is it possible to customize per-file
headers and what additional advantages Riak CS has?

Thank you!

[1] https://forums.aws.amazon.com/thread.jspa?threadID=34281


Best regards,
Andrey Martyanov

On Wed, Mar 28, 2012 at 7:40 AM, Reid Draper  wrote:

&gt;
&gt; On Mar 27, 2012, at 10:26 PM, Alexander Sicular wrote:
&gt;
&gt; &gt; On Mar 27, 2012, at 9:59 PM, Andrew Thompson wrote:
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; On Tue, Mar 27, 2012 at 09:55:17PM -0400, Alexander Sicular wrote:
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; Awesome. Grats on the release and all the hard work that went into it.
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; 1. I heard differing things when I asked in other forums but I wanted
&gt; to get an answer here, does Riak CS support range requests? Aka give me
&gt; bytes 100-200 from this 3MB file.
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; As Reid Draper said on HN, yes it does support range queries.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; I got a DM from someone else at Basho that said otherwise.
&gt; Sorry for the confusion. The first version of the "developer release" of
&gt; Riak CS does not support range requests, but it will shortly after.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; 2. Pricing. Is Riak CS priced like S3 in terms of storage volume,
&gt; bandwidth and lookups?
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; Pricing is per-node. I believe you can cram as many CPUs, drives and RAM
&gt; &gt;&gt; info a node as you want and pay the same flat per-node price.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; That's awesome. My own private S3 or someone else will host one for me.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Thanks!
&gt; &gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

