---
title: "Re: Logging chat messages"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-10-22T21:32:24-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg09011"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg09010"
author_name: "Rapsey"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-10-22T21:32:24-07:00
---


There is also another trick you can use. Pick a number. Assign every app
server you have a number between 1 and N. The number assigned to the server
is your starting ID, then increment by N every time you generate an ID from
that server. The only limitation is that you have to know in advance how
big N can get (it has to be larger than the number of your app servers).


Sergej

On Tue, Oct 23, 2012 at 6:00 AM, Shashwat Srivastava wrote:

&gt; Thank you Guido. Yes, a secondary index based on date would be immensely
&gt; helpful for me to navigate via date. I will do this. An incremental message
&gt; id would be helpful for me to get last 50 messages and so forth. I will use
&gt; another db for this. Thanks for all your help.
&gt;
&gt; Shashwat
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Mon, Oct 22, 2012 at 2:46 PM, Guido Medina wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Don't overkill it with technology, you could use Riak with a simple 2i
&gt;&gt; index (integer index YYYYMMDD for the message date so you can search day by
&gt;&gt; day backward), and for the message sequence or identifier you could either
&gt;&gt; user ANY SQL database sequence or a UUID generator.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; HTH,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Guido.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On 22/10/12 10:04, Rapsey wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Mon, Oct 22, 2012 at 10:29 AM, Shashwat Srivastava 
&gt;&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Now, each bucket would have conversation between two users or of a
&gt;&gt;&gt; room of a site. The conversation rate for (some) rooms is very high, some
&gt;&gt;&gt; 20,000 - 30,000 messages per hour. We have observed that users usually
&gt;&gt;&gt; don't access conversations past one week. So, if a bucket has conversation
&gt;&gt;&gt; of 3 years, then mostly users would access the recent conversation upto a
&gt;&gt;&gt; week or month. Can riak handle this easily? Also, would riak use RAM wisely
&gt;&gt;&gt; in this scenario? Would it only keep keys and indexes, corresponding to
&gt;&gt;&gt; recent messages per bucket, in RAM?
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Leveldb backend should.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Finally, what is the best approach for creating keys in a bucket?
&gt;&gt;&gt; Earlier, I was planning to use timestamp (in milliseconds). But in a room
&gt;&gt;&gt; there can be multiple messages at the same time. As I understand I cannot
&gt;&gt;&gt; have a unique incremental message id per bucket (as riak has write
&gt;&gt;&gt; capability in all nodes in a cluster so consistency is not guareented).
&gt;&gt;&gt; Please correct me if I am wrong. One other way could be to let riak
&gt;&gt;&gt; generate key and I use timestamp as a secondary index. But this seems to be
&gt;&gt;&gt; a bad design. Also, what would be the best way to achieve pagination for
&gt;&gt;&gt; this use case?
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; You could use redis for incremental id's.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Sergej
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing 
&gt;&gt; listriak-users@lists.basho.comhttp://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;

