---
title: "Re: Reduce phase behavior clarification"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-07-26T13:13:39-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04076"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04064"
author_name: "Brian Rowe"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-07-26T13:13:39-07:00
---


https://github.com/basho/riak\\_wiki/pull/139


On Tue, Jul 26, 2011 at 9:35 AM, Sean Cribbs  wrote:
&gt; Bob is right, it's a simple typo. Please send a pull request or open an
&gt; issue on the tracker.  https://github.com/basho/riak\\_wiki/issues
&gt;
&gt; On Mon, Jul 25, 2011 at 6:13 PM, Bob Ippolito  wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; It sounds like there is a typo, I would assume that it should be "the
&gt;&gt; input of later evaluations will include the output of earlier
&gt;&gt; evaluations". It's not really a reduction otherwise.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Mon, Jul 25, 2011 at 3:03 PM, Brian Rowe  wrote:
&gt;&gt; &gt; Hello,
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; I see the following on the Basho wiki for Riak [1]:
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;  The important thing to understand is that the function defining the
&gt;&gt; &gt; reduce phase may be evaluated multiple times, and the input of later
&gt;&gt; &gt; evaluations will include the input of earlier evaluations.
&gt;&gt; &gt;  For example, a reduce phase may implement the set-union function. In
&gt;&gt; &gt; that case, the first set of inputs might be [1,2,2,3], and the output
&gt;&gt; &gt; would be [1,2,3]. When the phase receives more inputs, say [3,4,5],
&gt;&gt; &gt; the function will be called with the concatentation of the two lists:
&gt;&gt; &gt; [1,2,3,4,5].
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; This description isn't clear to me as the behavior I'm seeing is that
&gt;&gt; &gt; the \\_output\\_ of earlier evaluations is included as input to later
&gt;&gt; &gt; evaluations. Unfortunately, the example yields the same results
&gt;&gt; &gt; irrespective of whether it is the input or the output of the first
&gt;&gt; &gt; evaluation, so it doesn't clear anything up.
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt; &gt; Brian
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; [1] http://wiki.basho.com/MapReduce.html
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt; Developer Advocate
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; http://www.basho.com/
&gt;

