---
title: "Re: python client to riak"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-07-07T09:16:11-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00688"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg00686"
author_name: "Grant Schofield"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-07-07T09:16:11-07:00
---


We moved some things around recently and it looks like the documentation didn't 
move with it. I put the documentation on our wiki, you can find it here:
https://wiki.basho.com/download/attachments/360504/riak\\_python.html

Sorry for the confusion.

Grant Schofield
Developer Advocate
Basho Technologies 


On Jul 7, 2010, at 9:07 AM, robert schaefer wrote:

&gt; Hello All,
&gt; 
&gt; I am a new user to riak and want to use the python client.
&gt; 
&gt; First I installed the riak server and walked through a few of the steps 
&gt; in the README steps at the text:
&gt; "We are now ready to start the Riak Client:"
&gt; it failed at the command:
&gt;  exception error undefined function client\\_connect)
&gt; 
&gt; I then tried the 
&gt; "building a development environment" web page and got farther
&gt; to the point that I could load a file and see it via web page. 
&gt; 
&gt; Anyway, 
&gt; I hg'd riak-python-client and python setup.py installed it.
&gt; The README said that there would be documentation in the docs directory.
&gt; There is no docs directory.
&gt; I googled riak python examples, and found none.
&gt; 
&gt; So now I have this python "client" code and have no idea how to use it.
&gt; 
&gt; Any help with examples for using the python client to Riak?
&gt; 
&gt; thanks in advance
&gt; 
&gt; -----------------------------------
&gt; robert schaefer
&gt; Atmospheric Sciences Group
&gt; MIT Haystack Observatory
&gt; Westford, MA 01886
&gt; 
&gt; email: r...@haystack.mit.edu
&gt; voice: 781-981-5767
&gt; www: http://www.haystack.mit.edu
&gt; 
&gt; 
