---
title: "Re: Throughput issue contd. On Joyend Riak Smartmachine"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-06-27T03:33:09-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07804"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg07803"
author_name: "Eric Anderson"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-06-27T03:33:09-07:00
---


On Jun 27, 2012, at 5:13 AM, Yousuf Fauzan  wrote:

&gt; Hi,
&gt; 
&gt; I setup a 3 machine riak SM cluster. Each machine used 4GB Ram and riak 
&gt; OpenSource SmartMachine Image.
&gt; 
&gt; Afterwards I tried loading data by following two methods
&gt; 1. Bash script
&gt; #!/bin/bash
&gt; echo $(date)
&gt; for (( c=1; c&lt;=1000; c++ ))
&gt; do
&gt; curl -s -d 'this is a test' -H "Content-Type: text/plain" 
&gt; http://127.0.0.1:8098/buckets/test/keys
&gt; done
&gt; echo $(date)
&gt; 
&gt; 2. Python Riak Client
&gt; c=riak.RiakClient("10.112.2.185") 
&gt; b=c.bucket("test")
&gt; for i in xrange(10000):o=b.new(str(i), str(i)).store()
&gt; 
&gt; For case 1, throughput was 25 writes/sec
&gt; For case 2, throughput was 200 writes/sec
&gt; 
&gt; Maybe I am making a fundamental mistake somewhere. I tried the above two 
&gt; scripts on EC2 clusters too and still got the same performance.
&gt; 
&gt; Please, someone help


The major difference between these two is the first is executing a binary, 
which has to basically create everything (connection, payload, etc) every time 
through the loop. The second does not - it creates the client once, then 
iterates over it keeping the same client and presumably the same connection as 
well. That makes a huge difference.

I would not use curl to do performance testing. What you probably want is 
something like your python script that will work on many threads/processes at 
once (or fire them up many times).


Eric Anderson
Co-Founder
CopperEgg
