---
title: "Re: Setting up a Riak + Mongrel2 Stack"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-08-24T09:43:56-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04451"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04447"
author_name: "trevor stanhope"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-08-24T09:43:56-07:00
---


Beyond using Mongrel2 as a proxy, which webserver might be best suited
to work with Riak.

Also, let me give you a basic idea of the system I'm planning to test.
More or less I'm trying to set-up the proxy in front of the riak kvs and
will be making calls to the datastore from a mobile phone application,
that will be doing some basic JSON MPqueries on the system (I'm debating
the merit of link walking for new db information, though I hear that
riak get is faster for objects that are known to exists). These will be
either parsed and returned to the mobile app, or returned to the
webserver to view in an online application.

Otherwise, the webserver needs to make simple authenticated writes to
the kvs, mostly to add links to existing objects, which will ideally be
populated into the db via scripts built into the webserver front-end
(but for testing purposes I was planning to use bash scripts, or some
faster equivalent).


On Wed, 2011-08-24 at 11:38 -0400, Jonathan Langevin wrote:
&gt; I dunno about mongrel, but I know some of the guys at basho have
&gt; personally used a proxy in front of Riak (Matt Heitzenroder is one
&gt; that's mentioned it before, I've CC'd him).
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; My thought is that if you can find out the general configuration
&gt; method of how to set up a proxy in front of Riak (such as how it may
&gt; differ from a typical proxy, if there's any special headers you have
&gt; to pass, what settings to apply regarding caching, etc), you could
&gt; then take that info to the Mongrel community and get some specific
&gt; help there for implementing the proxy configuration with the general
&gt; information you've gleamed from the Basho guys.
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; Jonathan Langevin
&gt; Systems Administrator
&gt; 
&gt; Loom Inc.
&gt; Wilmington, NC: (910) 241-0433
&gt; - jlange...@loomlearning.com - www.loomlearning.com - Skype: intel352
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Tue, Aug 23, 2011 at 5:28 PM, trevor stanhope
&gt;  wrote:
&gt; exactly. I'm looking to setup mongrel2 as front-end to a Riak
&gt; kvs.
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Tue, 2011-08-23 at 14:25 -0400, Jonathan Langevin wrote:
&gt; &gt; Is your intention to use mongrel as a proxy for Riak?
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Jonathan Langevin
&gt; &gt; Systems Administrator
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Loom Inc.
&gt; &gt; Wilmington, NC: (910) 241-0433
&gt; &gt; - jlange...@loomlearning.com - www.loomlearning.com - Skype:
&gt; intel352
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; On Thu, Aug 18, 2011 at 2:01 AM, trevor stanhope
&gt; &gt;  wrote:
&gt; &gt; Hey, I've been probing around for any existing
&gt; examples of a
&gt; &gt; Riak +
&gt; &gt; Mongrel2 stack being deployed and haven't had any
&gt; luck. I'm
&gt; &gt; not familiar
&gt; &gt; with Mongrel2 but it was recommended to me and I'm
&gt; very
&gt; &gt; interested in
&gt; &gt; deploying on that platform. What recommendations or
&gt; who would
&gt; &gt; be best to
&gt; &gt; speak with on that subject?
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Best Regards,
&gt; &gt; Trev Stanhope
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 



\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

