---
title: "RE: riak memstore clarification on enomem error"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-10-09T03:37:55-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08840"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg08839"
author_name: "Sangeetha.PattabiRaman2"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-10-09T03:37:55-07:00
---


Oh thank u so much Christian from bottom of heart.really your script did the 
trick...now I ma able to load 2.1 GB data easily...tahnks a lot .I was struck 
up with this past 3 weeks .
Regards
Sangeetha

-----Original Message-----
From: Christian Dahlqvist [mailto:christ...@whitenode.com]
Sent: Tuesday, October 09, 2012 3:57 PM
To: Pattabi Raman, Sangeetha (Cognizant)
Cc: sh...@mcewan.id.au; riak-users@lists.basho.com
Subject: Re: riak memstore clarification on enomem error

On 09/10/2012 10:39, sangeetha.pattabiram...@cognizant.com wrote:
&gt; Thanks Shane ,
&gt;
&gt; Load script used is as follows (basically a curl)
&gt;
&gt; #!/usr/local/bin/escript
&gt; main([Filename]) -&gt;
&gt; {ok, Data} = file:read\\_file(Filename),
&gt; Lines = tl(re:split(Data, "\\r?\\n", [{return, binary},trim])),
&gt; lists:foreach(fun(L) -&gt; LS = re:split(L, ","), format\\_and\\_insert(LS) 
&gt; end, Lines).
&gt;
&gt; format\\_and\\_insert(Line) -&gt;
&gt; JSON = 
&gt; io\\_lib:format("{\\"id\\":\\"~s\\",\\"phonenumber\\":~s,\\"callednumber\\":~s,\\"starttime\\":~s,\\"endtime\\":~s,\\"status\\":~s}",
&gt; Line),
&gt; Command = io\\_lib:format("curl -X PUT 
&gt; http://127.0.0.1:8098/riak/CustCalls35m/~s -d '~s' -H 'content-type: 
&gt; application/json'", [hd(Line),JSON]),
&gt; io:format("Inserting: ~s~n", [hd(Line)]),
&gt; os:cmd(Command).
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; you are right shane .after Loading it I confirm the same by querying the 
&gt;&gt;&gt; (1.8GB)35 million dataset with first ,middle and last row 
&gt;&gt;&gt; value(1,15000000,35000000) with id column.hence confirmed its stored onto 
&gt;&gt;&gt; CustCalls35m bucket of riak db.
&gt; Regards
&gt; Sangeetha
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; -----Original Message-----
&gt; From: riak-users [mailto:riak-users-boun...@lists.basho.com] On Behalf
&gt; Of Shane McEwan
&gt; Sent: Tuesday, October 09, 2012 3:00 PM
&gt; To: riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; Subject: Re: riak memstore clarification on enomem error
&gt;
&gt; G'day Sangeetha.
&gt;
&gt; On 09/10/12 07:40, sangeetha.pattabiram...@cognizant.com wrote:
&gt;&gt; Dear Team ,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I have a 64 GB RAM ,during the Load of 35 million
&gt;&gt; dataset (1.8 GB) it consumes nearly 40-45 GB of RAM durial the
&gt;&gt; startup of the erlang script ,but
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; While trying to load 40 million dataset (2.1 GB) I am getting the
&gt;&gt; following error
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\*escript: exception error: no match of right hand side value
&gt;&gt; {error,enomem}\\*\\*,\\*
&gt; The error message is coming from escript and not Riak. It's just a guess but 
&gt; could it be that the script you're using to load your data into Riak is 
&gt; trying to load all the data into memory before sending it to Riak?
&gt; Can you break your dataset into smaller chunks and load them separately?
&gt; Or send the data to Riak as you read it from the dataset without storing it 
&gt; all in memory?
&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\*2.\\*\\*Is there a provision to make use of the swap memory in riak
&gt;&gt; config?\\*
&gt; Using swap in this situation is almost always a bad idea. Your script will 
&gt; end up running so slowly you will be waiting for days, maybe months, for your 
&gt; data to load.
&gt;
&gt; Shane.
&gt;
 This e-mail and any files transmitted with it are for the sole use of the 
&gt; intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential and privileged 
&gt; information. If you are not the intended recipient(s), please reply to the 
&gt; sender and destroy all copies of the original message. Any unauthorized 
&gt; review, use, disclosure, dissemination, forwarding, printing or copying of 
&gt; this email, and/or any action taken in reliance on the contents of this 
&gt; e-mail is strictly prohibited and may be unlawful.
&gt;

Hi,

That script does indeed load all lines into memory before processing them one 
by one. Try something like this instead:

#!/usr/local/bin/escript
main([Filename]) -&gt;
 {ok, IoDev} = file:open(Filename, [read, raw, binary, {read\\_ahead, 
65536}]),
 process\\_file(IoDev).

process\\_file(IoDev) -&gt;
 case file:read\\_line(IoDev) of
 {ok, Data} -&gt;
 Line = strip\\_and\\_split(Data),
 JSON =
io\\_lib:format("{\\"id\\":\\"~s\\",\\"phonenumber\\":~s,\\"callednumber\\":~s,\\"starttime\\":~s,\\"endtime\\":~s,\\"status\\":~s}",
Line),
 Command = io\\_lib:format("curl -X PUT 
http://127.0.0.1:8098/riak/CustCalls35m/~s -d '~s' -H 'content-type:
application/json'", [hd(Line),JSON]),
 io:format("Inserting: ~s~n", [hd(Line)]),
 os:cmd(Command),
 process\\_file(IoDev);
 eof -&gt;
 ok;
 {error, Reason} -&gt;
 io:format("Error processing file: ~p~n", [Reason]),
 error
 end.

strip\\_and\\_split(Line) -&gt;
 [L | \\_] = re:split(Line, "\\n"),
 re:split(L, ",").


Best Regards,

Christian
This e-mail and any files transmitted with it are for the sole use of the 
intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential and privileged information. 
If you are not the intended recipient(s), please reply to the sender and 
destroy all copies of the original message. Any unauthorized review, use, 
disclosure, dissemination, forwarding, printing or copying of this email, 
and/or any action taken in reliance on the contents of this e-mail is strictly 
prohibited and may be unlawful.

