---
title: "Re: Riak 0.14.* and Erlang 14B03"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-06-29T09:50:49-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03869"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg03868"
author_name: "Gregory Haskins"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-06-29T09:50:49-07:00
---


On 6/29/11 12:44 PM, Gregory Haskins wrote:
&gt; Hi All,
&gt; 
&gt; I have run into the build problems with Riak and the latest Erlang. I
&gt; have also seen the github commits to understand that others have seen
&gt; this too and a fix is on the way (0.14.2 presumably?).

Sorry, I meant s/0.14.2/0.14.3 and s/0.14.1/0.14.2 throughout. Sorry
for the confusion. I should have checked my facts instead of relying on
memory before posting ;)

&gt; 
&gt; But that aside, I found this problem when I, of course, upgraded my
&gt; system to 14B03 which has both riak.git and riak-0.14.1.rpm installed.
&gt; What I was perhaps more surprised by was that my already compiled
&gt; riak.rpm now seems to have stopped working and I don't know why, but I
&gt; suspect it was coincident with the erlang upgrade (1).
&gt; 
&gt; So my question is: Would we expect run-time errors with riak-0.14.1
&gt; binaries against 14B03, or is something else going on here? FWIW: I
&gt; tried blowing away my /var/lib/riak and /var/log/riak files in hopes
&gt; that I could get passed this problem (its just development data) but no
&gt; luck. "service start riak" says "ok", but I do not get any logs (that I
&gt; can see) nor do I see the beam.smp running. Any help appreciated.
&gt; 
&gt; [1] note that I also saw sasl high-water memory errors in the logs in
&gt; the days leading up to the upgrade and eventual death, so there is a
&gt; possibility it is related to this as well.
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks!
&gt; -Greg
&gt; 


signature.asc
Description: OpenPGP digital signature
