---
title: "Re: riak-java-client"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-06-15T07:49:36-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00602"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg00594"
author_name: "Kevin Smith"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-06-15T07:49:36-07:00
---


I've just pushed a fix for this API oversight to the tip of the 
riak-java-client repository. You can pull and build source if you need the fix 
now or wait for the next release.

Please feel free to report any problems you might encounter with this fix if 
you do decide to try it out.

--Kevin
On Jun 14, 2010, at 10:45 PM, Dan Reverri wrote:

&gt; Hi Simon,
&gt; 
&gt; Just realized your question was specific to the Java client. I don't see a 
&gt; way to provide the "arg" property in the Java client. I've filed a bug for 
&gt; this issue:
&gt; http://issues.basho.com/show\\_bug.cgi?id=257
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; Dan
&gt; 
&gt; Daniel Reverri
&gt; Developer Advocate
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; d...@basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Mon, Jun 14, 2010 at 7:05 PM, Dan Reverri  wrote:
&gt; Hi Simon,
&gt; 
&gt; Static arguments can be passed to MapReduce queries using the "arg" property. 
&gt; Here is an example query that runs over all the keys in the bucket "bucket":
&gt; {
&gt; "inputs": "bucket",
&gt; "query": [
&gt; {
&gt; "map": {
&gt; "language": "javascript",
&gt; "source": "function(value, keyData, arg) { return [arg]; }",
&gt; "keep": true,
&gt; "arg": "static data" 
&gt; } 
&gt; }
&gt; ]
&gt; }
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; Daniel Reverri
&gt; Developer Advocate
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; d...@basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Mon, Jun 14, 2010 at 6:42 PM, Simon Cusack  wrote:
&gt; Hi all,
&gt; 
&gt; I hope this is the right place to ask this.
&gt; 
&gt; I have been playing with the riak-java-client via clojure which has
&gt; been great.
&gt; 
&gt; However I cant find a way to pass static args using MapReduceBuilder.
&gt; My javascript map function is like this;
&gt; 
&gt; function(value, keyData, arg){
&gt; if (some\\_predicate(value, arg)){
&gt; return munged(value);
&gt; }
&gt; return [];
&gt; }
&gt; 
&gt; I am trying to workout how to pass the "arg".
&gt; 
&gt; Any pointers would be greatly appreciated.
&gt; 
&gt; regards, Simon Cusack.
&gt; 
 
&gt; 
