---
title: "Re: php 5.3 protocol buffer client"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-12-22T21:17:44-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06046"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06044"
author_name: "John Loehrer"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-12-22T21:17:44-08:00
---


I have compared drslump vs 2 others, and found the fastest so far is the one 
based off of:

https://github.com/bramp/protoc-gen-php

By a factor of 2x. So far DrSlump is the slowest of the three. The refactored 
code based off of pb4php comes in at a close second:

http://code.google.com/p/pb4php/

My refactoring didn't make it any faster or slower, just made the api cleaner 
and more to my liking. Still working on it, and will post both parts as 
standalone components on github once i am done refactoring.


~ John

----- Original Message -----
From: "Joseph Lambert" 
To: "John Loehrer" 
Cc: "riak-users Users" 
Sent: Thursday, December 22, 2011 5:52:19 PM
Subject: Re: php 5.3 protocol buffer client

Nice! 


I had actually done the same thing using DrSlump's protobuf library and found 
that it worked quite well and was about 40% faster than HTTP. 


I'm curious what your results might be performance-wise comparing what you have 
written to DrSlumps (I noticed there is a commit comment about comparing to 
DrSlumps). 

- Joe Lambert 



On Fri, Dec 23, 2011 at 5:39 AM, John Loehrer &lt; jloeh...@gaiaonline.com &gt; 
wrote: 


Sorry if it wasn't clear, all the changes are in the transport branch: 

https://github.com/gaiaops/riak-php-client/tree/transport 

It can be merged into master once we are sure it is production ready. 

~ John 



----- Original Message ----- 
From: "John Loehrer" &lt; jloeh...@gaiaonline.com &gt; 
To: "riak-users Users" &lt; riak-users@lists.basho.com &gt; 
Sent: Thursday, December 22, 2011 1:34:36 PM 
Subject: php 5.3 protocol buffer client 

Past few days I have been experimenting with a protocol buffers client for riak 
in php 5.3. 

https://github.com/gaiaops/riak-php-client 
https://github.com/basho/riak-php-client/pull/20 


It is a port of the existing php client and should be backward compatible with 
the existing code. Everything seems to work as expected and passes the unit 
tests. 

Anyone willing to play with it in their test environments to help me find bugs? 
Also, interested in getting help finishing it, as maintaining the code is a lot 
of work. 


~ John 

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_ 
riak-users mailing list 
riak-users@lists.basho.com 
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com 

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_ 
riak-users mailing list 
riak-users@lists.basho.com 
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com 


\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

