---
title: "Re: Inequality support in Riak Secondary indexes"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-01-11T10:23:57-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06244"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06238"
author_name: "Sean Cribbs"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-01-11T10:23:57-08:00
---


Sreejith,

Some queries that include less-than/greater-than can also be expressed as
ranges. Your example is simple because someone's age cannot be &lt; 0, so age
&lt; 28 is equivalent 0 &lt;= age &lt;= 27, that is, age ranging from 0 to 27.

Yes, currently 2i only works with LevelDB. Theoretically other backends can
support it, but the feature has not been implemented on them yet.

On Wed, Jan 11, 2012 at 12:37 PM, Sreejith K  wrote:

&gt; Hi everyone,
&gt;
&gt; Its was a great news to know about Riak's support for secondary indexes.
&gt; That was a great work indeed!
&gt;
&gt; AFAIK, one will be able to index equality queries (property:value) and
&gt; range queries (property:[red TO rum]) as described in Riak website. But I
&gt; have some queries with inequality operators such as "&lt;", "&gt;", "&lt;=", "&gt;="
&gt; etc. For example, I need to search through a recods of users to find all
&gt; the users whose "age" is &lt; 28 (I assume the record has "name", "age",
&gt; "address" properties stored using a username as the key).
&gt;
&gt; 1. Can I make use of secondary indexes for this kind of inequality queries
&gt; so that querying will be faster?
&gt; 2. If not, what should be the best way to solve this kind of situations in
&gt; Riak?
&gt; 3. Does 2i only work with LevelDB as backend storage?
&gt;
&gt; Thanks in advance :-)
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Regards,
&gt;
&gt; Sreejith K
&gt;

-- 
Sean Cribbs 
Software Engineer
Basho Technologies, Inc.
http://basho.com/
