---
title: "Re: Riak Java Client"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-02-19T10:29:42-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg02390"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg02378"
author_name: "Russell Brown"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-02-19T10:29:42-08:00
---

On 18 Feb 2011, at 23:20, Wilson MacGyver wrote:

&gt; We use the java client, mostly in groovy. In terms of wish list
&gt; 
&gt; 1: Protocol buffer support, this is addressed in the 0.14 version.
&gt; 
&gt; 2: make the httpconnection max client setting work. I couldn't get this to 
&gt; work
&gt; no matter what I do. It always only open 1 connection.

I have a fix for this. You can see it (roughly) here.
https://github.com/russelldb/riak-java-client/commit/9b0e837a6a4492d9d27610866fa342278d5fac98

Although it is badly formatted so I haven't put a pull request in yet, it will 
be addressed very soon. 

&gt; 
&gt; 3: support no-data flag. I noticed in python client, you can pass a
&gt; no-data returned
&gt; flag when doing a PUT to riak. I can't find the same thing in java.
&gt; This would be
&gt; very useful in bulk upload situation.

Sounds extremely doable, and in short order. 

&gt; 
&gt; 4: it'd be nice if we can write map/reduce functions in groovy. :)

Requires more thought but it is well worth thinking about. Thanks for all these 
and keep them coming. 

&gt; 
&gt; On Wed, Feb 16, 2011 at 10:22 PM, David Smith  wrote:
&gt;&gt; We're also working on putting together a comparison with the Ripple
&gt;&gt; API (h/t to Sean) and using that to improve/expand the Java API
&gt;&gt; accordingly. The intent is that all APIs should be idiomatic to
&gt;&gt; languages, so it won't be a straight port necessarily.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Short answer -- we're working on it and would love your input. :)
&gt; 
&gt; -- 
&gt; Omnem crede diem tibi diluxisse supremum.
&gt; 

On 19 Feb 2011, at 14:59, Russell Brown wrote:

&gt; 
&gt; On 18 Feb 2011, at 23:20, Wilson MacGyver wrote:
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; We use the java client, mostly in groovy. In terms of wish list
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 1: Protocol buffer support, this is addressed in the 0.14 version.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 2: make the httpconnection max client setting work. I couldn't get this to 
&gt;&gt; work
&gt;&gt; no matter what I do. It always only open 1 connection.
&gt; 
&gt; I have a fix for this. You can see it (roughly) here.
&gt; https://github.com/russelldb/riak-java-client/commit/9b0e837a6a4492d9d27610866fa342278d5fac98
&gt; 
&gt; Although it is badly formatted so I haven't put a pull request in yet, it 
&gt; will be addressed very soon. 
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 3: support no-data flag. I noticed in python client, you can pass a
&gt;&gt; no-data returned
&gt;&gt; flag when doing a PUT to riak. I can't find the same thing in java.
&gt;&gt; This would be
&gt;&gt; very useful in bulk upload situation.
&gt; 
&gt; Sounds extremely doable in short order. 
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 4: it'd be nice if we can write map/reduce functions in groovy. :)
&gt; 
&gt; Requires more thought but it is well worth thinking about. Thanks for all 
&gt; these and keep them coming. 
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On Wed, Feb 16, 2011 at 10:22 PM, David Smith  wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt; We're also working on putting together a comparison with the Ripple
&gt;&gt;&gt; API (h/t to Sean) and using that to improve/expand the Java API
&gt;&gt;&gt; accordingly. The intent is that all APIs should be idiomatic to
&gt;&gt;&gt; languages, so it won't be a straight port necessarily.
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Short answer -- we're working on it and would love your input. :)
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; -- 
&gt;&gt; Omnem crede diem tibi diluxisse supremum.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt; 

