---
title: "Re: Riak 1.0.2 RC1"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-11-07T09:31:58-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05452"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg05449"
author_name: "Anthony Molinaro"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-11-07T09:31:58-08:00
---


Lets say I already have a system with a ring size of 1024 in 0.14.2,
should I wait to upgrade until this is sorted out? And how long will
that be? Where is this in terms of Basho's priorities?

You say stay under 1024, so I assume that means the max size you
recommend would be 512? Does this also apply to applications using
riak\\_core? We have a riak\\_core appliction which currently has about
75 nodes with 1024 partitions, should we not update riak\\_core to
the version shipped in the 1.0.x releases.

Are there things that can be done if we require a 1024 ring size to
mitigate the issue? It appears the issue might only be during ring
changes, so might not be that awful?

Thanks,

-Anthony

On Sun, Nov 06, 2011 at 08:10:52PM -0700, Joseph Blomstedt wrote:
&gt; &gt; RE: large ring size warning in the release notes, is the performance
&gt; &gt; degradation linear below 256? That is, until the major release that fixes
&gt; &gt; this, is it best to keep ring sizes at 64 for best performance?
&gt; 
&gt; The large ring size warning in the release notes is predominately
&gt; related to an issue with Riak's ring gossip functionality.
&gt; Adding/removing nodes, changing bucket properties, and setting cluster
&gt; metadata all result in a brief period (usually a few seconds) where
&gt; gossip traffic increases significantly. The size of the ring
&gt; determines both the number of gossip messages that occur during this
&gt; window, as well as the size of each message. With large rings, it is
&gt; possible that messages are generated faster than they can be handled,
&gt; resulting in large message queues that impact cluster performance and
&gt; tie up system memory until the message queues are fully drained. In
&gt; general, there is no problem as long as your hardware is fast enough
&gt; to process the brief spike in gossip traffic in close to real time.
&gt; Concerning this specific issue, choosing a ring size smaller than the
&gt; maximum you can handle does not provide any additional performance
&gt; gains.
&gt; 
&gt; However, unrelated to this issue, there are general performance
&gt; considerations related to ring size versus the number of nodes in your
&gt; cluster. Given a fixed number of nodes, a larger ring results in more
&gt; vnodes per node. This allows more process concurrency which may
&gt; improvement performance. However, each vnode runs it's own backend
&gt; instance that has it's own set of on-disk files, and competing
&gt; reads/writes to different files may result in additional I/O
&gt; contention than having fewer vnodes per node. The overall performance
&gt; is going to depend largely on your OS, your file system, and your
&gt; traffic pattern. So, it's hard to give specific hard and fast rules.
&gt; The other issue is 2I performance. Secondary indexes send request to a
&gt; covering set of vnodes, which works out to ring\\_size / N requests;
&gt; therefore increasing the ring\\_size without increasing N leads to more
&gt; 2I requests. Again, the right answer depends largely on your use case.
&gt; 
&gt; Overall, I believe we normally recommend between 10 and 50 vnodes per
&gt; node, with the ring size rounded up to the next power of two.
&gt; Personally, I think 16 vnodes per node is a good number, which matches
&gt; the common 64 partition, 4 node Riak cluster. Thus, choosing a ring
&gt; size based on that ratio and your expected number of future nodes is a
&gt; reasonable choice. Just be sure to stay under 1024 until the issue
&gt; with gossip overloading the cluster is resolved.
&gt; 
&gt; -Joe
&gt; 
&gt; On Sat, Nov 5, 2011 at 9:49 AM, Jim Adler  wrote:
&gt; &gt; RE: large ring size warning in the release notes, is the performance
&gt; &gt; degradation linear below 256? That is, until the major release that fixes
&gt; &gt; this, is it best to keep ring sizes at 64 for best performance?
&gt; &gt; Jim
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Sent from my phone. Please forgive the typos.
&gt; &gt; On Nov 4, 2011, at 7:20 PM, Jared Morrow  wrote:
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; As we've mentioned earlier, the 1.0.2 release of Riak is coming soon.   Like
&gt; &gt; we did with Riak 1.0.0, we are provided a release candidate for test before
&gt; &gt; we release 1.0.2 final.
&gt; &gt; You can find the packages here:
&gt; &gt; http://downloads.basho.com/riak/riak-1.0.2rc1/
&gt; &gt; The release notes have been updated and can be found here:
&gt; &gt;  https://github.com/basho/riak/blob/1.0/RELEASE-NOTES.org
&gt; &gt; Thank you, as always, for continuing to provide bug reports and feedback.
&gt; &gt; -Jared
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; -- 
&gt; Joseph Blomstedt 
&gt; Software Engineer
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; http://www.basho.com/
&gt; 

-- 
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Anthony Molinaro 

