---
title: "Re: Alternative to Post-Commit in EDS"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-04-03T23:08:07-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07131"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg07119"
author_name: "Anthony Molinaro"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-04-03T23:08:07-07:00
---


Also pinging on this one, maybe if I rephrase the questions I'll get
an answer.

Does riak have a last modified field which can be used in a map reduce
job, to say get updated values from a timestamp?

Are last modified times copied when replicating a K/V across data centers
with EDS?

Is there some other scheme I could use to determine what has been
replicated?

Thanks,

-Anthony

On Mon, Apr 02, 2012 at 06:37:17PM -0700, Anthony Molinaro wrote:
&gt; Hi,
&gt; 
&gt; I'm evaluating Riak EDS for a system where I'd like to have data
&gt; replicated between several colo's. The replication would be
&gt; bidirectional, but the flow would only reverse if a colo goes down
&gt; (ie, normally all writes to a bucket go to one colo and are replicated
&gt; to others, but if that colo goes down the writes will go somewhere
&gt; else). This seems relatively straight forward I'm sure, now the
&gt; wrinkle.
&gt; 
&gt; I'd like to get a signal when data shows up in a colo across the
&gt; replication channel. Ideally via some sort of post-replication-commit
&gt; hook but I guess this is not currently possible (2nd hand from Basho
&gt; sales). So my question is, is there any alternate way to do this?
&gt; 
&gt; I assume that maybe internal update time would be modified so my
&gt; first thought would be a map reduce job which determined recently
&gt; changed values, but I'm not sure if that would work correctly or not.
&gt; 
&gt; Does anyone else have any idea of a way to do this sort of thing?
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; 
&gt; -Anthony
&gt; 
&gt; -- 
&gt; ------------------------------------------------------------------------
&gt; Anthony Molinaro 
&gt; 

-- 
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Anthony Molinaro 

