---
title: "Re: Multiple 'database' in Riak"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-01-19T10:06:52-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg09848"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg09847"
author_name: "Jimmy Ho"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-01-19T10:06:52-08:00
---


I see..

So we'd trust developers (well, just me at the moment), not mess the other
app up?
As one can say, add a link to an /\\*app1\\*.user/johnsmith to
/\\*app2\\*.posts/peterpan
by mistake?

Different scenario, what about uat vs prod?
I suppose a separate cluster would make good sense? ie, 2 x 10 node
cluster, buckets prefixed by app ?

Or would you have prefixes with  +  +  ?

Jimmy.

On Sat, Jan 19, 2013 at 5:47 PM, Guido Medina wrote:

&gt; Neither or both mixed? You could have prefixes per buckets and have N
&gt; applications per cluster and add a 5 nodes cluster as needed, so that you
&gt; can host as many per cluster, that way you know each bucket prefix point to
&gt; an specific app.
&gt;
&gt; Hope that helps,
&gt;
&gt; Guido.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On 19/01/13 17:26, Jeremiah Peschka wrote:
&gt;
&gt; That really depends on what you hope to accomplish.
&gt;
&gt; If you want both applications to have the same performance
&gt; characteristics, then go with option 1.
&gt; If you want the fun of troubleshooting two applications to figure out why
&gt; one application is having performance problems, go with option 2.
&gt;
&gt; Is there any reason you can't use different bucket names to run a single
&gt; riak cluster?
&gt;
&gt; ---
&gt; Jeremiah Peschka - Founder, Brent Ozar Unlimited
&gt; MCITP: SQL Server 2008, MVP
&gt; Cloudera Certified Developer for Apache Hadoop
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Sat, Jan 19, 2013 at 9:07 AM, Jimmy Ho  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi guys,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I knew a similar questions have been asked, but would like to find out
&gt;&gt; what are some sensible ways to deploy riak for both for multiple
&gt;&gt; applications, or even uat + prod environments.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Let's assume I have a budget for 10 servers.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I have two applications I wish to deploy into PROD (hence needing two
&gt;&gt; 'databases').
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Would it make sense to,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; 1. build two clusters, 5 nodes each, for each of the app, completely
&gt;&gt; isolated.
&gt;&gt; 2. build two cluster, each host to have two instances of riak, ie
&gt;&gt; forming a 2 x 10node clusters
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Another assumption: both apps have similar resource consumption at
&gt;&gt; anyone time.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Which would would benefit the most from riak's distributed architecture
&gt;&gt; ?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I suppose I am trying to explore ways to maximise server utilisation.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Jimmy
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing 
&gt; listriak-users@lists.basho.comhttp://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
