---
title: "Re: eLevelDB max_open_files in 1.2.0"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-08-17T07:13:12-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08312"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg08302"
author_name: "Mark Phillips"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-08-17T07:13:12-07:00
---


Hi Dave,

On Thu, Aug 16, 2012 at 9:41 AM, Dave Brady  wrote:
&gt; Thanks, Mark!
&gt;
&gt; I have a somewhat-related follow up question: is there a recommended maximum 
&gt; for the amount of data held on a machine?
&gt;
&gt; I ask because at my previous company Cassandra was used, and we were advised 
&gt; to put no more 250 GB per physical box. The reasoning was that in a failure 
&gt; situation, rebuilding any more than this amount of data would cause too great 
&gt; a performance degradation.
&gt;

So there's no hard and fast amount of data per node that you shouldn't
be passing when using Riak. Rather, it makes more sense to keep in
mind the resources needed when a node (or set of nodes) becomes
unreachable, dead, or is sold on ebay by a sysadmin trying to raise
money for a ping pong table.. Plan appropriately for capacity and
Riak should operate as advertised . 250GB/node shouldn't be an issue
as long as you understand the resources needed to keep the cluster
going in failure and growth scenarios. (Anecdotally, I can tell you I
know of one Riak user that has &gt;5TB/physical node on a cluster with
10s of nodes.)

Ryan Zezeski also pointed out that Eric Brewer wrote a paper in 2001
[0] that touches on this and is worth a read (much like all the papers
he writes).

Hope that helps.

Mark
ricon2012.com

[0] http://www.cs.berkeley.edu/~brewer/Giant.pdf


&gt; --
&gt; Dave Brady
&gt;
&gt; ----- Original Message -----
&gt; From: "Mark Phillips" 
&gt; To: "Dave Brady" 
&gt; Cc: riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; Sent: Tuesday, August 14, 2012 7:34:10 PM GMT +01:00 Amsterdam / Berlin / 
&gt; Bern / Rome / Stockholm / Vienna
&gt; Subject: Re: eLevelDB max\\_open\\_files in 1.2.0
&gt;
&gt; Hi Dave,
&gt;
&gt; On Sun, Aug 12, 2012 at 3:58 PM, Dave Brady  wrote:
&gt;&gt; Hello,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; First I want to thanks Basho for greatly expanding the documentation on the 
&gt;&gt; Wiki for configuring/tuning Riak and eLevelDB in 1.2.0! Big improvement 
&gt;&gt; over 1.1.x.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; My question is about max\\_open\\_files: here the documentation is confusing to 
&gt;&gt; me.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; It says to allocate one open file per 2 MB, then divide by the number of 
&gt;&gt; partitions. This is the same formula used in 1.1.x.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; It goes on to say that if you manually set this parameter in 1.1.x, to 
&gt;&gt; divide that value by two for 1.2.0.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Should not the formula for 1.2.0, in that case, read as use one file per 4 
&gt;&gt; MB?
&gt;
&gt; Long story short, the answer is "yes" :)
&gt;
&gt; With 1.2, 4MB is the advised file size, and you should be running with
&gt; no less that 20 files/nodes. I'll take a pass at updating the docs to
&gt; make this a bit easier to understand. Thanks for pointing that out.
&gt;
&gt; Mark
&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thankks!
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; Dave Brady
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

