---
title: "Re: RiakSearch question"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-04-13T09:53:09-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03007"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg03005"
author_name: "Rusty Klophaus"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-04-13T09:53:09-07:00
---


I'd recommend that you download a pre-built binary or a code tarball from
http://downloads.basho.com/riak-search/CURRENT/ rather than pulling code
from github directly.

The code on github is the latest development version of our software, and so
it may have bugs or build problem that we haven't found yet. (For example,
recent changes in riak\\_core result in a timeout error when you try to run a
search using the latest code.)

On Wed, Apr 13, 2011 at 12:29 PM, Dan Reverri  wrote:

&gt; You need to use the Riak Search repo in place of the Riak repo if you are
&gt; going to following those instructions:
&gt; https://github.com/basho/riak\\_search
&gt;
&gt; 
&gt; Daniel Reverri
&gt; Developer Advocate
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; d...@basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Wed, Apr 13, 2011 at 9:25 AM, Muhammad Yousaf  &gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Dan,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I build it by following the instruction from the following link
&gt;&gt; http://wiki.basho.com/Building-a-Development-Environment.html
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Regards,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Muhammad Yousaf
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; ------------------------------
&gt;&gt; Date: Wed, 13 Apr 2011 09:09:27 -0700
&gt;&gt; Subject: Re: RiakSearch question
&gt;&gt; From: d...@basho.com
&gt;&gt; To: muhammad.you...@live.com
&gt;&gt; CC: riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi Muhammad,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; How did you build the three node cluster? What repo did you use?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt; Dan
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Daniel Reverri
&gt;&gt; Developer Advocate
&gt;&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt;&gt; d...@basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Wed, Apr 13, 2011 at 9:04 AM, Muhammad Yousaf &lt;
&gt;&gt; muhammad.you...@live.com&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I have set my schema using riak search. Now i want to test it on multiple
&gt;&gt; node on local machine . I have setup three nodes and they are all connected
&gt;&gt; now why cannot i access my riaksearch bucket? and how can i do that ?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Only reason i think is previously i was runing node as "riaksearch start"
&gt;&gt; and now nodes are running using "riak start" .
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Regards,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Muhammad Yousaf
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;

