---
title: "Re: Deepest monitoring in Riak"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-02-08T16:57:47-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06559"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06490"
author_name: "Mark Phillips"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-02-08T16:57:47-08:00
---


Hi Jose,

Sorry for the late response on this...

On Wed, Feb 1, 2012 at 9:31 AM, Jose Ignacio Gil Jaldo
wrote:

&gt; Hi everyone,
&gt;
&gt; first of all, this is my first post in the mail list but I hope it won't
&gt; be the last. I like Riak a lot and it is making me start learning (and
&gt; loving) Erlang.
&gt;

Welcome to the community. Glad you joined us. May your journey into Riak
and Erlang by long, enriching, and only moderately frustrating. :)


&gt;
&gt; Does it exist something in Riak allowing to see which buckets are being
&gt; most frequently used, how many operations per second do they receive and
&gt; what type (get, put, delete, mapreduce) and so on. Is it possible with Riak
&gt; or some external tool to do it? I have seen the /stats url but even I find
&gt; it useful, it would be nice having something a bucket basis.
&gt;

At this time there is nothing built into Riak that gives you this type of
visibility. At some point down the line Riak Control [1] will have bucket
browsing capabilities, but I can't make any promises about the specifics of
this functionality.


&gt;
&gt; Of course, it is always possible to do that on a LB or similar, but it
&gt; would be nice to have integrated into Riak itself or with a tool as
&gt; transparent as possible. What do you think?
&gt;

I do agree that it would great to have. I would start by adding more
details around what you would to see in this feature to the feature request
page [2].

Thanks.

Mark

[1] https://github.com/basho/riak\\_control
[2] http://features.basho.com/home


&gt;
&gt; Thanks a lot,
&gt; José Ignacio Gil Jaldo
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

