---
title: "Re: Substring Search"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-03-26T08:44:45-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07046"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg07044"
author_name: "Alexander Sicular"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-03-26T08:44:45-07:00
---


Um... Have you tried wildcards? Like "basket\\*"? Cause I'm using that now 
against Riak Search and it's working for me, although my data set is not large 
in the slightest. 


@siculars on twitter
http://siculars.posterous.com

Sent from my iRotaryPhone

On Mar 25, 2012, at 23:56, Hursh Prasad  wrote:

&gt; Yes I would like a similar setup as well and checked into ElasticSearch, I am 
&gt; searching on short phrases less then 200 characters I do not want to miss 
&gt; trailing words in compound words like ball in basketball.
&gt; 
&gt; It seems the only option I have is SQL databases that support regular 
&gt; expressions (please correct me if I am wrong).
&gt; 
&gt; I think that is unfortunate, I prefer the performant index/querying, 
&gt; replication ease, and non-impedance of JSON document store capability of 
&gt; NoSql db's.
&gt; 
&gt; Hursh
&gt; 
&gt; On Sun, Mar 25, 2012 at 10:03 PM, John D. Rowell  wrote:
&gt; We use ElasticSearch for everything search related, even when the persistence 
&gt; layer happens in Riak, Redis or MongoDB. If you're using JSON to store your 
&gt; Riak documents it's just a matter of storing the documents on ElasticSearch 
&gt; also (also HTTP/JSON, with a REST API) and you get fully clustered, sharded, 
&gt; cloud-aware, extremely fast Lucene-compatible searches with very little 
&gt; effort.
&gt; 
&gt; -jd
&gt; 
&gt; Em 25 de março de 2012 17:28, Hursh Prasad  
&gt; escreveu:
&gt; Yeah I am talking Riak Search, I did not see anything or any approaches.
&gt; 
&gt; It seems like there isn't a good NoSQL solution out there.
&gt; 
&gt; On Sun, Mar 25, 2012 at 4:17 PM, Erik Søe Sørensen  wrote:
&gt; Are you talking about plain Riak, or using secondary indexes, or of Riak 
&gt; Search?
&gt; 
&gt; The question makes most sense in context of Riak Search.
&gt; If the page
&gt; http://wiki.basho.com/Riak-Search---Querying.html
&gt; is up-to-date, then the answer appears to be 'no' - wildcards (\\*,?) are 
&gt; supported, but
&gt; "Currently, the wildcard must come at the end of the term in both cases."
&gt; i.e. only prefix queries can be used, not queries of arbitrary substrings.
&gt; 
&gt; Trusting that someone will correct me if I'm wrong,
&gt; 
&gt; /Erik
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; Mobile: + 45 2636 1755 | Skype: eriksoesorensen | Twitter: @eriksoe
&gt; Trifork A/S | Margrethepladsen 4 | DK- 8000 Aarhus C | Phone : +45 8732 
&gt; 8787 | www.trifork.com
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; From: riak-users-boun...@lists.basho.com [riak-users-boun...@lists.basho.com] 
&gt; On Behalf Of Hursh Prasad [hu...@theeggofcolumbus.com]
&gt; Sent: 25 March 2012 22:04
&gt; To: riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; Subject: Re: Welcome to the "riak-users" mailing list
&gt; 
&gt; Does Riak support (or what are the options for) substring search?
&gt; 
&gt; Example "ball" or "bal" in basketball?
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; Hursh
&gt; 
&gt; 
 
&gt; 
&gt; 
