---
title: "Re: Is Riak suitable for s small-record write-intensive	billion-records application?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-10-22T07:00:51-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08996"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg08979"
author_name: "Jared Morrow"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-10-22T07:00:51-07:00
---


If anyone would like a comparison of Riak to Couchbase with citations for
each bullet point, we took a lot of time to make sure our comparisons page
is objective and fact based.

http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/references/appendices/comparisons/Riak-Compared-to-Couchbase/
is the one for Riak v. Couchbase.

-Jared


On Mon, Oct 22, 2012 at 7:55 AM, Sean Cribbs  wrote:

&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Mon, Oct 22, 2012 at 9:41 AM, Joshua Muzaaya wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; This is not meant to down-market Riak, but you mentioned Billions of
&gt;&gt; records. Riak storage is known to have a few issues as data grows to
&gt;&gt; billions. However, Couchbase 2.0 has been kinda battle tested, using SQLite
&gt;&gt; at the storage layer.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; I'm not sure how you are backing up this assertion (citation?). We have
&gt; customers storing terabytes of data with billions of records (using
&gt; LevelDB). SQLite as the storage engine does not necessarily make Couchbase
&gt; more stable or battle-tested, just better known among the wider community.
&gt; On the other hand, we have spent the last eighteen months, in collaboration
&gt; with the original authors at Google, hardening and improving the
&gt; performance of LevelDB to support large deployments, and it now performs
&gt; very well (although we still can do better).
&gt;
&gt; I'm not saying that the OP should not consider Couchbase, but either
&gt; product is going to require more than just a casual knowledge of ops to
&gt; deploy, manage and maintain. Clustered datastores are not for the
&gt; faint-of-heart, so if the OP can do it in a local SQL database, then he
&gt; should.
&gt;
&gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt; Software Engineer
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; http://basho.com/
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

