---
title: "Re: @ in riaksearch query"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-11-22T07:20:10-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01594"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg01592"
author_name: "Rusty Klophaus"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-11-22T07:20:10-08:00
---


Hi Eric,

Not sure exactly what you mean. If you mean an open bug repository, you
should be able to browse and file bugs on http://issues.basho.com after
creating an account. If you mean an open code repository, you can fork the
Search code and submit pull requests at https://github.com/basho/riak\\_search.
I may be misunderstanding. :)

Best,
Rusty


On Mon, Nov 22, 2010 at 10:03 AM, Eric Cestari  wrote:

&gt; Thanks Rusty. I can work around this limitation with little effort.
&gt;
&gt; My quick search did not reveal an open repository for riaksearch — Did I
&gt; miss something or is it something you plan to do until, say, "out of beta"
&gt; status ?
&gt;
&gt; Best,
&gt; Eric
&gt; Le 22 nov. 2010 à 15:58, Rusty Klophaus a écrit :
&gt;
&gt; Hi Eric,
&gt;
&gt; This looks like a problem related to some of the other query parsing bugs
&gt; we are currently tracking.
&gt;
&gt; I've tracked this separately here
&gt; https://issues.basho.com/show\\_bug.cgi?id=886, this should be fixed in the
&gt; next release.
&gt;
&gt; Best,
&gt; Rusty
&gt;
&gt; On Thu, Nov 18, 2010 at 6:01 AM, Eric Cestari  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi list,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; When I run a query of this kind :
&gt;&gt; "body:test and to:te...@conference.boulette.local"
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; It breaks on the server with the following :
&gt;&gt; {{case\\_clause,[&lt;&lt;"test2"&gt;&gt;,
&gt;&gt; &lt;&lt;"conference.boulette.local"&gt;&gt;]},
&gt;&gt; [{qilr\\_parse,make\\_term,1},
&gt;&gt; {qilr\\_parse,yeccpars2\\_1,7},
&gt;&gt; {qilr\\_parse,yeccpars0,5},
&gt;&gt; {qilr\\_parse,string,3},
&gt;&gt; {riak\\_search\\_client,parse\\_query,3},
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Removing the @ sign make my problem go away. Should I escape it ? And how
&gt;&gt; should I do that ?
&gt;&gt; Best,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; cstar
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
