---
title: "Re: Achieving 100% consitency"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-08-27T02:33:37-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04488"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04483"
author_name: "Jonathan Langevin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-08-27T02:33:37-07:00
---


Even for development-purposes only? Otherwise it seems data would be written
n times to the same machine, which is needless in a dev environment with low
storage specs...\\*


Jonathan Langevin
Systems Administrator
Loom Inc.
Wilmington, NC: (910) 241-0433 - jlange...@loomlearning.com -
www.loomlearning.com - Skype: intel352
\\*


On Fri, Aug 26, 2011 at 5:01 PM, Ian Plosker  wrote:

&gt; Lukas,
&gt;
&gt; Also, we don't advise that you run single node clusters. Riak is designed
&gt; to be used in clusters of at least 3 nodes. You can run a multi-node cluster
&gt; on a single development machine by downloading the Riak source, and running
&gt; "make devrel". Take a look at the Riak Fast Track (
&gt; http://wiki.basho.com/The-Riak-Fast-Track.html) for more details.
&gt;
&gt; Ian Plosker
&gt; Developer Advocate
&gt; Basho Technologies
&gt;
&gt; On Aug 26, 2011, at 3:17 PM, Lukas Schulze wrote:
&gt;
&gt; I'm doing some simple tests with Riak and tried to build something like an
&gt; index.
&gt; Therefore I created new buckets for some attributes like "name", "street"
&gt; and "city".
&gt; One entry in the index-bucket "name" is for example "Mueller" and the value
&gt; contains all user ids, formatted as an JSON string: "{id:[1,5,8,13,2,7]}"
&gt; The java objects are saved as JSON strings in a separate bucket "users",
&gt; the keys in this bucket are the user-ids, the values are the JSON strings.
&gt;
&gt; If I add 200 users via Java and the RiakPBC client every loop I fetch the
&gt; index, add the new user id and store it again in Riak.
&gt; But java is too fast, so I receive an old version of the bucket.
&gt;
&gt; Because I've only one node I set the n-value to 1, r = 1, w = 1 and dw = 1.
&gt; But I have to wait nearly 2 seconds to be mostly sure to get the correct
&gt; response. (the computer isn't an high-end machine ;-) )
&gt;
&gt; Is it possible to be sure that the data will be saved permanently and I can
&gt; continue adding users?
&gt; Are there any caching methods I can configure?
&gt; Can I set the default n-value to 1 so that every newly created bucket will
&gt; have this value?
&gt; Does Riak have any kind of indexes or is it possible to implement it a
&gt; better way?
&gt;
&gt; In my first version I saved all users in one bucket and iterated over all
&gt; of them to find the correct one. But for every single request from the Java
&gt; Service to Riak it took nearly 200ms. For a huge amount of entries (10,000)
&gt; this isn't practible. Therefore I tried to implement my own indexes.
&gt;
&gt; The main focus of my question is getting rid of the inconsistent reads.
&gt;
&gt; Thank you.
&gt;
&gt; Best Regards
&gt; Lukas
