---
title: "Re: In-Memory Performance"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-08-02T13:35:50-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04183"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04177"
author_name: "Eric Moritz"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-08-02T13:35:50-07:00
---


When you were doing the reads, did you set the r-value to 1? This
will speed up reads in a read heavy app because only one node has to
be in agreement about the object.

Eric.

On Tue, Aug 2, 2011 at 11:22 AM, Matt Savona  wrote:
&gt; Hi all,
&gt;
&gt; My colleagues and I are evaluating Riak as a persistent, replicated K-V store.
&gt;
&gt; I have a fairly simple (and not so scientific) test that reads and
&gt; writes 5000 objects that are 32K in size. I am particularly interested
&gt; in squeezing every last bit of performance out of Riak in a very
&gt; read-heavy environment. I want to avoid hitting disk for reads as much
&gt; as possible; our entire content set is much larger than could ever be
&gt; stored in RAM, but preferably hot/active objects will remain resident
&gt; in memory until various conditions may force them to be evicted. While
&gt; the content set is quite large, the number of active keys represent a
&gt; very small portion of the data which could easily fit in RAM.
&gt;
&gt; I've been running the same test against Riak given various
&gt; combinations of backends and access protocols (HTTP vs. PB).
&gt;
&gt; My numbers can be seen in this screenshot:
&gt; http://img824.imageshack.us/img824/3185/riakperformance.png
&gt;
&gt; It is quite evident (and perhaps obvious) that Protocol Buffer
&gt; performance is noticeably better than HTTP in most cases.
&gt;
&gt; What is confusing to me is the performance of purely in-memory
&gt; backends. Notably, GB Trees and LRU Cache (and even Innostore), at
&gt; best took 14s to retrieve 5000 32K objects. The exact same test
&gt; against Membase took just 6s.
&gt;
&gt; Perhaps I'm not comparing apples to apples (Riak in-memory versus
&gt; Membase). Do my tests look reasonable and do the numbers look roughly
&gt; in-line with expectations? Is there any way to squeeze more juice out
&gt; of Riak? A purely in-memory/non-persistent backend will not suffice
&gt; for our ultimate needs, but for testing purposes I'm just trying to
&gt; see if I can get read performance more in line with what we're seeing
&gt; with Membase. We love everything about it, but we haven't yet hit the
&gt; performance we were hoping for.
&gt;
&gt; Thanks in advance!
&gt;
&gt; - Matt
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

