---
title: "Re: alphanumeric sort"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-05-11T15:00:00-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03314"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg03312"
author_name: "Ben Tilly"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-05-11T15:00:00-07:00
---


In JavaScript the default sort order depends on the data types of the
variables in question. If either is a string, you convert the other
to a string and sort lexicographically, but if both are numbers you
compare numerically. There is a similar inconsistency around what the
"+" operation does.

Inconsistencies that can arise from string promotion are a common
source of surprise.

On Wed, May 11, 2011 at 1:35 PM, Alexander Sicular  wrote:
&gt; Iirc, "sort()" is by default lexographic in JavaScript so an added function
&gt; is not necessary. The added function is specifically intended for a custom
&gt; sort, ie. numerical.
&gt;
&gt; You could simply do something like:
&gt;
&gt; return v['key'].sort()
&gt;
&gt; Try that out and lemme know if it works as you expect.
&gt;
&gt; Cheers ,
&gt; Alexander
&gt;
&gt; @siculars on twitter
&gt; http://siculars.posterous.com
&gt;
&gt; Sent from my iPhone
&gt;
&gt; On May 11, 2011, at 13:10, Claus Guttesen  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Your compare function will need to return a -1, 0 or 1 for less than,
&gt;&gt;&gt; the same or greater than.  Luckily javascript allows you
&gt;&gt;&gt; to strings lexicographically so the function is a nice two liner:
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; function(a, b) {
&gt;&gt;&gt;  if(a == b) return 0;
&gt;&gt;&gt;  return a &gt; b ? 1 : -1;
&gt;&gt;&gt; }
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Application:
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; var reduceSort = function (v, args) {
&gt;&gt;&gt;  return v.sort (function(a, b) {
&gt;&gt;&gt;  if(a['key'] == b['key']) return 0;
&gt;&gt;&gt;  return a['key'] &gt; b['key'] ? 1 : -1;
&gt;&gt;&gt;  });
&gt;&gt;&gt; };
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Eric.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thank you so much! :-) Worked like a charm.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; regards
&gt;&gt; Claus
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; When lenity and cruelty play for a kingdom,
&gt;&gt; the gentler gamester is the soonest winner.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Shakespeare
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; twitter.com/kometen
&gt;
