---
title: "Re: Riak async PB client based on Grizzly"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-06-22T05:13:48-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03778"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg03776"
author_name: "Mark Wolfe"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-06-22T05:13:48-07:00
---


Yeah agreed grizzly is a very nice API

Real pity Oracle completely screwed up java.net as it pretty much orphaned a
tone of good support mailing list and forum posts in the process.

&gt;From what I understand there are quite a few services using Java for this
sort of thing at the moment.

These guys are doing some interesting stuff if your interested in that sort
of scale.

http://urbanairship.com/blog/2010/08/24/c500k-in-action-at-urban-airship/

http://urbanairship.com/blog/2010/09/29/linux-kernel-tuning-for-c500k/

http://urbanairship.com/blog/2010/12/14/android-messaging-deploying-the-octobot/

All very interesting stuff which I have been keeping an eye on for a while.

Not sure what they used in the end but interesting all the same :)


On Wed, Jun 22, 2011 at 9:41 PM, Jon Brisbin  wrote:

&gt; I've looked at netty too, but I thought Grizzly was a little more mature
&gt; and I liked the abstractions of Grizzly better.
&gt;
&gt; I'm really looking into something like this for a proof of concept I'm
&gt; doing that might involve Riak in a very large-scale, massively-concurrent
&gt; system that handles large transfers of data. The "competition" POCs include
&gt; Node.js and maybe Ruby/EventMachine. The point is to see if using Java
&gt; (and/or Scala) in a hugely-scalable, highly-concurrent system can compete
&gt; with Node.js and others that seem to have more momentum in that area. I'm
&gt; convinced it can not only compete, but surpass those other platforms
&gt; considering you have all the benefits of running on the JVM, including
&gt; management/monitoring and ease of extension through plugins and other
&gt; extension points.
&gt;
&gt; If Riak was to be the data store of record for this system, then I would
&gt; absolutely need a highly-concurrent, non-blocking driver to access the data
&gt; from the REST interface, which will be Grizzy HTTP and also non-blocking.
&gt;
&gt; I'm going to clean things up a little (I've only implemented get and put
&gt; but not using the abstractions in the official driver). I think I'm going to
&gt; refactor that a little and then I'll put it on github and let everyone know.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Thanks!
&gt;
&gt; Jon Brisbin
&gt; http//jbrisbin.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; ------------------------------
&gt;
&gt; \\*From: \\*"Mark Wolfe" 
&gt; \\*To: \\*"riak-users Users" 
&gt; \\*Sent: \\*Wednesday, June 22, 2011 3:15:09 AM
&gt;
&gt; \\*Subject: \\*Re: Riak async PB client based on Grizzly
&gt;
&gt; I have been interested in doing the same thing for a while.
&gt;
&gt; Instead of Grizzly I started messing around with Netty
&gt; https://github.com/netty/ which is very similar.
&gt;
&gt; I am not sure what either of you have found but in my experiance the NIO
&gt; stuff only really comes into it's own with large transfers or routines which
&gt; rely upon interaction with disk and network IO. For normal small transaction
&gt; rates it really doesn't add a lot aside from being a easier to manage
&gt; timeouts ect.
&gt;
&gt; If you do start up a project I would be happy to put in some hours hacking.
&gt;
&gt; Either way best of luck!
&gt;
&gt; On Wed, Jun 22, 2011 at 5:27 PM, Russell Brown wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hey Jon,
&gt;&gt; Any chance you want to implement the RawClient interface (
&gt;&gt; https://github.com/basho/riak-java-client/blob/master/src/main/java/com/basho/riak/client/raw/RawClient.java)
&gt;&gt; from
&gt;&gt; the basho riak-java-client library? That way your client can be swapped
&gt;&gt; straight into the basho lib?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; If not, let me know when you get a repo up on github and I'll write an
&gt;&gt; adapter so that the basho riak-java-client can make use of your Grizzly
&gt;&gt; client, which I guess means I'll pitch in a little (time permitting) to help
&gt;&gt; shape the Grizzly client so it is RawClient shaped.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Cheers
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Russell
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On 21 Jun 2011, at 17:58, Jon Brisbin wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I'm trying to get my feet wet with Grizzly on another project, so I've
&gt;&gt; been spending some late(ish) nights also working on a Grizzly-based
&gt;&gt; asynchronous PB client for Riak. I'm dropping all the way down to the
&gt;&gt; protobuf level and using Grizzly's NIO abstractions to implement a
&gt;&gt; completely non-blocking client. I'm writing the low-level stuff in Java and
&gt;&gt; I'd really like to build a Scala layer on top of this, which uses the nice
&gt;&gt; Scala idioms (operators, case classes, etc...). But I can't write code as
&gt;&gt; fast in Scala as I can in Java and some of the Java APIs inside Grizzly
&gt;&gt; aren't all that Scala-friendly and make the code pretty ugly. I figured it
&gt;&gt; would be better to implement a fairly low-level PB client in Java and flesh
&gt;&gt; out the user-facing API in Scala and/or Java.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; My question is basically, if I seed this project on GitHub with what I've
&gt;&gt; got so far, would anyone else be interested in helping complete it? I'm just
&gt;&gt; working on this after my other Grizzly work, so I can't devote full time to
&gt;&gt; it. It might take me a little while to implement things like links and
&gt;&gt; mapreduce.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I think it shows some real promise because it is completely non-blocking.
&gt;&gt; It uses Futures and CompletionHandlers to do the dirty work. A Grizzly
&gt;&gt; filter is responsible for the actual encoding/decoding of protobuf data.
&gt;&gt; Right now, it will marshall JSON using Jackson if your content-type is set
&gt;&gt; to "application/json", otherwise it uses JDK serialization to encode the
&gt;&gt; entry (or just passes a String straight through, of course).
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Since it's a first pass, there is no real attempt to separate the protobuf
&gt;&gt; stuff from the client. That's a v2 thing. Since I have limited time, I'm
&gt;&gt; interested in speed to completion of features rather than good-looking and
&gt;&gt; properly abstracted code. :)
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks!
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Jon Brisbin
&gt;&gt; http//jbrisbin.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Regards,
&gt;
&gt; Mark Wolfe
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; I am not young enough to know everything.
&gt; --
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;


-- 
Regards,

Mark Wolfe

--
I am not young enough to know everything.
--
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

