---
title: "Re: Secondary Indexes - Feedback?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-11-30T10:09:58-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05813"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg05703"
author_name: "Greg Pascale"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-11-30T10:09:58-08:00
---


Here at Clipboard, we make very heavy use of Riak Search and a couple of manual 
indices here and there. I've wanted to use 2i a few times but have decided 
against it for a few reasons:

1) Apprehension about the coverage set query, as Matt articulated.

2) Lack of ordering of returned results. Generally I just want the top 10 or 
so, and the ordering information is in the primary key. I can accomplish this 
with search via the presort parameter. 

To me, the implementations of search and 2I are backwards. Search has 
scalability issues because term-based partitioning optimizes for single-term 
queries, but creates huge hotspots making many AND queries prohibitively 
expensive. 2I's document-based partitioning makes single-term queries more 
expensive (coverage set) but should allow AND queries to scale. But 2i only 
supports single-term queries!

-- 
Greg
Clipboard

On Monday, November 21, 2011 at 10:18 PM, Fyodor Yarochkin wrote:

&gt; &gt; Have you tried Secondary Indexes?
&gt; &gt; Does the feature help solve your problems? If not, why not? Any concerns?
&gt; &gt; What is your wish list for the future of Secondary Indexes?
&gt; 
&gt; yup. I think secondary indexes is probably one of the most-wanted
&gt; options for this release. It does impact how you are able to model
&gt; your data alot. We discussed the data modeling patterns internally
&gt; here, and the cool thing with secondary indexes is that it is not only
&gt; queries are possible but also the secondary index name could be
&gt; throught of as dynamic variable. Thus, as long as you can predict the
&gt; secondary index name, you can pretty much use it as indexed field in
&gt; SQL data model. One thing we have not tested yet though: if there is
&gt; a limit on number of secondary indexes for a single object, and how
&gt; the system would behave if the number of secondary indexes for a
&gt; particular object is huge.
&gt; 
&gt; Another limitation (or wouldbegoodtohave :-)) thing that we have
&gt; noticed is that there is no straight-forward way to query data by
&gt; multiple secondary indexes at once. You can either do key filtering,
&gt; or do one query, feed it to map job, and then reduce by removing
&gt; entries that do not much 2nd criteria, but not query by
&gt; secondaryAval\\_int/2 and secondaryBval\\_int/4. This said, I haven't
&gt; really looked into inner workings of secondary indexes implementation,
&gt; so I am simply commenting on this from a user perspective.
&gt; 
&gt; Other than this would be interesting to hear some comparisons on
&gt; performance of secondary index queries vs. SOLR indexes (riak\\_search),
&gt; in our experience secondary indexes perform way faster on large volume
&gt; of data but this could could be just my impression.
&gt; 
&gt; cheers,
&gt; -Fyodor
&gt; 
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

