---
title: "RE: Unable to use RiakPbcTransport for Search using Python client"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-05-28T19:54:41-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07766"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg07765"
author_name: "mine name"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-05-28T19:54:41-07:00
---


I tried setting the bucket.enable\\_search() using Http and then using PBC but it 
isn't giving search results. bucket.search\\_enabled() still returns false when 
called using PBC, and True when called using Http. Data stored using Http is 
searchable, but that stored using PBC is not getting searched. Can PBC be used 
or will I have to use Http?
Thank you
From: ae10b...@hotmail.com
To: s...@basho.com
Subject: RE: Unable to use RiakPbcTransport for Search using Python client
Date: Tue, 29 May 2012 08:08:15 +0530
CC: riak-users@lists.basho.com

Really sorry about the double post.

So I can set the properties using Http and then store data using protbuf?
Thank you
Date: Mon, 28 May 2012 22:24:19 -0400
Subject: Re: Unable to use RiakPbcTransport for Search using Python client
From: s...@basho.com
To: ae10b...@hotmail.com
CC: riak-users@lists.basho.com

The PBC transport does not support all bucket properties, so you must set them 
with HTTP first. We will be working to alleviate this limitation in near-future 
releases.

On Mon, May 28, 2012 at 10:22 PM, mine name  wrote:


Hi
I am trying to use Riak Search with the Python client.
I am able to use search if I use the Http interface, but not if i use Protocol 
buffers. If I create a RiakClient using RiakPbcTransport, 
bucket.enable\\_search() returns true but if I call bucket.search\\_enabled() after 
that, it returns false. Searches always give empty results. Other than this I 
am able to use to RiakClient with RiakPbcTransport.

Any idea what I am doing wrong?
Thank you.
 

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_

riak-users mailing list

riak-users@lists.basho.com

http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com


-- 
Sean Cribbs Software EngineerBasho Technologies, 
Inc.http://basho.com/

 

 
 

