---
title: "Re: Easier to use Java Client"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-03-29T11:30:40-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg02782"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg02779"
author_name: "Rexxe"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-03-29T11:30:40-07:00
---


Jon, my apologies, didn't mean to put words in your mouth :-)

I guess you could put a template abstraction in front of your client, but
like I said, the typing is a little weird to accommodate Groovy. So, if
someone needed to use the client directly, it might be a little difficult
for them in pure Java.

Thanks for taking a look at the code!

Andrew

On Tue, Mar 29, 2011 at 7:02 AM, Jon Brisbin  wrote:

&gt;
&gt; On Mar 29, 2011, at 12:28 AM, Rexxe wrote:
&gt;
&gt; I started to use Riak using the spring-data project but found that their
&gt; API was lacking and had serious issues with strict typing. It turns out
&gt; that the Java API they've built is pretty much being built just so it works
&gt; in Grails/Groovy.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Actually, what I said is that the spring-data support for Riak needed to
&gt; accommodate the Groovy use-case. It's not specifically for the Grails/Groovy
&gt; use case, but that it is being used heavily there so its a dependency.
&gt;
&gt; We've talked about having a separate Template abstraction that uses Strings
&gt; for keys, etc... It's an approach that Costin has pursued with the Redis
&gt; support and seems to work fairly well. It might be that we just need a
&gt; template that takes these things into account. I think with the addition of
&gt; a few helpers, we could make it look like whatever someone wanted. :)
&gt;
&gt; So, I started to look at the Riak Java API. I found it to be a bit
&gt; complicated and I didn't like how it still forced the user to know about a
&gt; lot of specifics of Riak, especially query params and other properties, and
&gt; didn't provide a layer of abstraction on top of the actual client (so I
&gt; could say go switch between the REST and PBC client). So, I decided to
&gt; write my own client and semi-ORM layer. I am still working on some of the
&gt; details, I need to write more tests, and I need to document it, but the bulk
&gt; of the code is done. I have only implemented the REST client so far, but I
&gt; plan on implementing PB in the future.
&gt;
&gt; You can check it out here: https://github.com/aberman/spring-riak
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; I like what you've done here, having gone through the code. It's very
&gt; well-written and would make a good alternative to what's currently
&gt; available. It doesn't cover the full feature needs yet, but its certainly a
&gt; good start.
&gt;
&gt; Thanks!
&gt;
&gt; Jon Brisbin
&gt;
&gt; http://jbrisbin.com
&gt; Twitter: @j\\_brisbin
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;

