---
title: "Re: Riak 1.2 RC1 Release"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-07-13T17:42:23-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07936"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg07935"
author_name: "Andrew Zeneski"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-07-13T17:42:23-07:00
---


I was told R15B1

Andrew

On Jul 13, 2012, at 8:40 PM, Jeremy Ong wrote:

&gt; Hi,
&gt; 
&gt; looks awesome, which Erlang release is the recommended one for building this?
&gt; 
&gt; jeremy
&gt; 
&gt; On Fri, Jul 13, 2012 at 5:31 PM, Gordon Tillman  wrote:
&gt; Jared this is great news. There are some supremely-useful additions and 
&gt; enhancements in this release!
&gt; 
&gt; --gordon
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Jul 13, 2012, at 19:16 , Jared Morrow wrote:
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Riak Users,
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Today we are really excited to make available Riak 1.2 release candidate 1. 
&gt;&gt; Riak 1.2 is a huge release for us and we hope everyone enjoys the new 
&gt;&gt; changes. So like the 1.0 and 1.1 release we are providing the release 
&gt;&gt; candidate hoping that everyone in the community who is willing to give it a 
&gt;&gt; try will download Riak, run it, and tell us what you think. Although the 
&gt;&gt; "RC" signifies that we consider it final release quality, we still ask that 
&gt;&gt; you hold off for 1.2 final release before putting into full production.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; So what has changed? Here is where you can find the current state of the 
&gt;&gt; release notes for 1.2. 
&gt;&gt; https://github.com/basho/riak/blob/1.2/RELEASE-NOTES.md
&gt;&gt; The major features that have changed are listed, but some fixed bugs are 
&gt;&gt; missing. We will be continuing to fill out the release notes until the final 
&gt;&gt; release!
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Download here: http://basho.com/resources/downloads/
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; One thing you will notice is the downloads page has be reorganized a bit. 
&gt;&gt; Now each platform is under its own directory. Hopefully this will help 
&gt;&gt; remove some confusion when it comes to picking packages. Also, we've heard 
&gt;&gt; your pleas.. static links are now provided on the download page for those of 
&gt;&gt; you who deploy Riak via scripts.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; As always, our whole team thanks our wonderful community (You) for your 
&gt;&gt; dedication and love for Riak.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt; The Basho Team
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
 
&gt; 

