---
title: "Re: MapReduce request causes Erlang VM to close"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-09-13T03:10:37-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08522"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg08520"
author_name: "Staffan Einarsson"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-09-13T03:10:37-07:00
---


Hi Kersten,

That is exactly my problem. Normally I have something to go on from the
error and crash log files, but in this case they are both empty. There is
neither any crash dump file. The console.log file contains the same
information as the erlang.log.1 file I pasted, minus a few lines.

I'm not sure what would cause an Erlang VM to fail so abruptly without
saying anything. Is the name clash mentioned at the top of the pasted file
something that could cause this?

Kindly,

-- Staffan Einarsson
Engineering

Skype: staffan.einarsson
Phone: +46 70 426 07 46
http://muchdifferent.com

On Thu, Sep 13, 2012 at 11:39 AM, Kresten Krab Thorup wrote:

&gt; What you send does not seem to indicate any errors other than the "erlang
&gt; has closed" message. Isn't there something else you can share with us? a
&gt; crash log or something?
&gt;
&gt; Kresten
&gt;
&gt; On Sep 13, 2012, at 11:32 AM, Staffan Einarsson &lt;
&gt; staffan.einars...@muchdifferent.com staffan.einars...@muchdifferent.com&gt;&gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Hi guys,
&gt;
&gt; I'm having a problem with the Erlang VM going down for a Riak node that
&gt; receives a MapReduce request.
&gt;
&gt; My setup is this:
&gt;
&gt; I run three Riak 1.2.0 nodes, each on an Ubuntu Server 12.04 guest OS on
&gt; VirtualBox 4.1.20. The host OS is Windows. I send requests through our own
&gt; Riak client library, (uGameDB for the Unity game engine), which uses the PB
&gt; interface. When my test script sends a MapReduce request to one of the
&gt; nodes, the node fails instantly.
&gt;
&gt; The error.log and crash.log files are empty. The erlang.log.1 file says:
&gt; http://pastebin.com/1LHqYCaB
&gt;
&gt; I have tested this with different versions of our client library,
&gt; specifically with versions that have previously been confirmed to work, to
&gt; rule out any error on the client side. I have also tried with different
&gt; numbers of nodes, and it is only the node that receives the MapReduce
&gt; request that fails.
&gt;
&gt; Any help is greatly appreciated!
&gt;
&gt; Kindly,
&gt;
&gt; -- Staffan Einarsson
&gt; Engineering
&gt;
&gt; Skype: staffan.einarsson
&gt; Phone: +46 70 426 07 46
&gt; http://muchdifferent.com
&gt;

&gt; Mobile: + 45 2343 4626 | Skype: krestenkrabthorup | Twitter: @drkrab
&gt; Trifork A/S | Margrethepladsen 4 | DK- 8000 Aarhus C | Phone : +45
&gt; 8732 8787 | www.trifork.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
