---
title: "Re: Is it possible/wise to modify riak search index objects?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-07-21T01:29:50-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08010"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg08009"
author_name: "Alexander Sicular"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-07-21T01:29:50-07:00
---


Na. It should index via the standard analyzer which splits on spaces, among 
other things (check riak handbook - great resource). The "guid:val" would index 
as a string so guid:100 should show up in a search for [guid:050 TO guid:250]. 
Try it out. 


@siculars
http://siculars.posterous.com

Sent from my iRotaryPhone

On Jul 21, 2012, at 4:17, Metin Akat  wrote:

&gt; Yes, but that would require me to write a custom search analyzer to parse 
&gt; this, upload erlang code to riak etc, right? Or is there something I don't 
&gt; know? Please, elaborate
&gt; 
&gt; On Sat, Jul 21, 2012 at 11:06 AM, Alexander Sicular  
&gt; wrote:
&gt; The overhead would be in parsing. But you could skip all that if you 
&gt; prepended constant length data to your text. Something like :
&gt; 
&gt; Field:Val field:Val text
&gt; 
&gt; Where field and Val length are constant.
&gt; 
&gt; Maybe like a guid:100
&gt; 
&gt; Where that guid is known to you to be the file size.
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; @siculars
&gt; http://siculars.posterous.com
&gt; 
&gt; Sent from my iRotaryPhone
&gt; 
&gt; On Jul 21, 2012, at 2:16, Metin Akat  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; I was thinking about this too, but as I said, these text files are sometimes 
&gt;&gt; quite big. Sometimes megabytes. Rarely - tens of megabytes. They are all 
&gt;&gt; "write once, read quite a lot". So having them as JSON is probably going to 
&gt;&gt; put quite a lot of load onto riak and my application (deserialize a big 
&gt;&gt; chunk of JSON on every read). Of course, I might be wrong, I'll have to 
&gt;&gt; benchmark it probably, but I don't really feel very comfortable about it. 
&gt;&gt; Besides of potentially being a performance issue, it also feels quite ugly 
&gt;&gt; to me. Have you done this? How big files? How's the performance?
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On Sat, Jul 21, 2012 at 7:52 AM, Alexander Sicular  
&gt;&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt; Turn your text into a json obj. Maybe something like this:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; { size: 100
&gt;&gt; Name: bla
&gt;&gt; Date: 1/1/2012
&gt;&gt; Raw\\_txt: txt
&gt;&gt; }
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; @siculars
&gt;&gt; http://siculars.posterous.com
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Sent from my iRotaryPhone
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On Jul 20, 2012, at 17:49, Metin Akat  wrote:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; &gt; Hi,
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; I am using riak to store (relatively large) text files. I store them as 
&gt;&gt; &gt; normal riak objects where the value is the text of the file. Now I want to 
&gt;&gt; &gt; index and search them. All is fine, I just enabled the "standard" search 
&gt;&gt; &gt; pre-commit hook for that bucket and they get indexed nicely. But, there is 
&gt;&gt; &gt; one tricky requirement. I need to be able to index and search some 
&gt;&gt; &gt; metadata about these files. For example date of submission, size of file, 
&gt;&gt; &gt; type (internal business logic) of file etc.
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; I have been thinking quite a lot about this recently. Asked several times 
&gt;&gt; &gt; on #riak. I got one answer suggesting that I create a second "metadata" 
&gt;&gt; &gt; riak object for each file, link it to the "file object" and index it 
&gt;&gt; &gt; separately. That's not really what I want, because I need to be able to 
&gt;&gt; &gt; execute "combined" queries, like value: AND date:.
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; So, here is the ideal solution that I'm thinking about.... It would be 
&gt;&gt; &gt; great if it's possible to modify the riak search index object. After the 
&gt;&gt; &gt; file is submitted, and after it's indexed, I could just fetch the index 
&gt;&gt; &gt; and just add some more fields to it.
&gt;&gt; &gt; I see there is a bucket with the search index objects that's automatically 
&gt;&gt; &gt; created by riak search. So I guess it is indeed possible, though I don't 
&gt;&gt; &gt; know what to expect. Is it a good idea? If not, what else could I do in 
&gt;&gt; &gt; order to solve the problem?
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; Regards,
&gt;&gt; &gt; Metin
&gt;&gt; &gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; 
&gt; 
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

