---
title: "Re: problem building on CentOS 64bit"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-07-08T13:34:27-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03967"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg03965"
author_name: "Jared Morrow"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-07-08T13:34:27-07:00
---


Phil,

Sorry for the troubles this morning, I went ahead and updated the version of
rebar currently on riak/master. We are working on a different (and better)
method of dealing with rebar being packaged in our repositories.

Thanks,
Jared
.
On Fri, Jul 8, 2011 at 12:41 PM, Phil Stanhope  wrote:

&gt; Thanks Sean.
&gt;
&gt; I did what you suggested. Pulled and built a new rebar. Copied that into
&gt; /usr/local/bin. Checked that it would take precedence over the one that is
&gt; packaged in the RIAK repo.
&gt;
&gt; The one in the root of RIAK is "rebar version: 2 date 20110310\\_184739
&gt; 2e1b4da". The newly built one is: "rebar version: 20110708\\_181908 vcs: git
&gt; 5e04e7d"
&gt;
&gt; Unfortunately, the makefile in the root of RIAK explicitly calls the
&gt; pre-packaged rebar. I get the same build errors.
&gt;
&gt; So I replaced the prepackaged rebar with the newly built one ... and a
&gt; clean build works fine with no makefile changes required.
&gt;
&gt; -phil
&gt;
&gt; On Fri, Jul 8, 2011 at 2:08 PM, Sean Cribbs  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Phil,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; This is a question best sent to the riak-users list. Recent changes in
&gt;&gt; the codebase necessitate an upgrade to rebar. In your source checkout,
&gt;&gt; download rebar from here: https://github.com/downloads/basho/rebar/rebar... 
&gt;&gt; then re-attempt the build.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Fri, Jul 8, 2011 at 2:01 PM, Phil Stanhope  wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Hi all,
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Environment = CentOS 64bit 5.6
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; I've got working 13B04 (from source) + .14.2 ... no problems there.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; I've got a working 14B02 (from source) ... no problems there.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; I've cloned RIAK from github today. Have two problems while building:
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; erlang\\_js ... need to modify Makefile to explicitly set --enable-64bit
&gt;&gt;&gt; eleveldb ... need to modify leveldb/Makefile to explicitly set -fPIC
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; NOTE: When I pull the individual repos directly, they build fine. It's
&gt;&gt;&gt; only when pulling RIAK and rebar has done the get\\_deps process that I've got
&gt;&gt;&gt; the problem.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; It seems that there are commits in either of the dependent repositories
&gt;&gt;&gt; for these fixes.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; I just don't know how rebar does it's dependency magic (yet) to
&gt;&gt;&gt; understand what commit it's pulling from github.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; -phil
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt;&gt; Developer Advocate
&gt;&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt;&gt; http://www.basho.com/
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;

