---
title: "Re: basho_bench results"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-06-22T14:53:31-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00635"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg00634"
author_name: "Sean Cribbs"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-06-22T14:53:31-07:00
---


Germain,

Sorry for not getting back to you sooner. Your graphs are slightly 
disconcerting to me for a few reasons.

1) The throughput graphs have consistent upward trends, which says to me that 
something - cache, buffer pools, whatever - aren't "warmed up" until the end of 
the test. There might also be something external to the test going on.

2) You have a lot of concurrent workers. 5 should be more than enough to 
saturate your cluster when there's no throttling ({mode,max}). Be sure your 
client machine is not the limiting factor here (and that you're not running 
basho\\_bench on the same machine as a node).

3) Your payload size is really large (fixed size of 400K). If this is 
representative of your application's workload, that's fine. But you might try 
running the test with the "null" driver, which will detect how well the key and 
value generators perform in combination (doesn't actually hit Riak). It should 
give you an idea of how costly the generation is, and thus what the upper 
limits of throughput are.

Sean Cribbs 
Developer Advocate
Basho Technologies, Inc.
http://basho.com/

On Jun 22, 2010, at 4:38 PM, Germain Maurice wrote:

&gt; No one ?
&gt; 
&gt; Le 18/06/2010 18:47, Germain Maurice a écrit :
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Hi all,
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; We led some tests with basho\\_bench and we got some results here : 
&gt;&gt; http://erralt.wordpress.com/2010/06/18/benching-riak-with-basho\\_bench/
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; I put inside the pictures the content of each configuration file we used to 
&gt;&gt; launch the benchmarks (easier to compare).
&gt;&gt; When looking at the last benchmark and after 3000 seconds elapsed, can we 
&gt;&gt; considered that more than 2500 operations are done in one second ? On each 
&gt;&gt; second can we expect to get the same quantity of read and write requests 
&gt;&gt; throughout the benchmark ?
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Regards,
&gt;&gt; Germain
&gt;&gt; -- 
&gt;&gt; Germain Maurice
&gt;&gt; Administrateur Système/Réseau
&gt;&gt; Tel : +33.(0)1.42.43.54.33
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; http://www.linkfluence.net
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt; 

