---
title: "Re: link graph traversal"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-04-12T20:26:38-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00015"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg00014"
author_name: "Colin Surprenant"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-04-12T20:26:38-07:00
---


Thanks for the info. This is what I understood from the doc, the
examples and the tests I did. I was wondering if there was something I
was missing to be able to traverse a complete graph using a simple
call.

I don't know how the mapreduce link query is actually executed in the
mapreduce engine, if its distributed (i think not) but, AFAIK a
function cannot be defined, only patterns. Only the map and reduce
queries can have functions. Unless we can find a way to daisychain
mapreduce jobs for each link step? Otherwise, traversal can be done at
the application level I guess, requiring new mapreduce for each "next"
link.

But it would be really nice to be able to run a mapreduce job over a
complete graph defined with links.

Thanks,
Colin


On Mon, Apr 12, 2010 at 5:18 PM, Alexander Sicular  wrote:
&gt; Colin,
&gt;
&gt; Link walking http calls are non exhaustive. So if you wanted to follow, for 
&gt; example, two levels of depth you would have to do something like:
&gt;
&gt; http://localhost:8098/raw/bucket/key/\\_,\\_,\\_/\\_,\\_,\\_
&gt;
&gt; Check here, http://blog.basho.com/2010/02/24/link-walking-by-example/, and 
&gt; here, https://wiki.basho.com/display/RIAK/REST+API#RESTAPI-Linkwalking, if 
&gt; you haven't already.
&gt;
&gt; Otherwise you need to build your own recursive function. I'm not exactly sure 
&gt; what that would look like in Riak M/R.
&gt;
&gt; -Alexander
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Apr 12, 2010, at 5:07 PM, Colin Surprenant wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; If I create a linked list of many items (unknown size) in a bucket,
&gt;&gt; for example, item1 links to item2, item2 links to item3, and so on, is
&gt;&gt; there a way to retrieve the complete set of items in a single
&gt;&gt; link-walking query or mapreduce query??
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; It looks like it only gathers the item direct childs and not the whole graph.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks for your help,
&gt;&gt; Colin
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

