---
title: "RE: Cluster setup"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-12-12T08:18:10-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg09554"
author_name: "Kevin Burton"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-12-12T08:18:10-08:00
---


On last question. Since this is a cluster there is only one public IP
address. Doesn't that necessitate the ports being different values (ie 8088
-&gt; node1, 8089 -&gt; node2, 8090 -&gt; node3 or something like that)?

-----Original Message-----
From: Shane McEwan [mailto:sh...@mcewan.id.au] 
Sent: Wednesday, December 12, 2012 10:12 AM
To: Kevin Burton
Cc: riak-users@lists.basho.com
Subject: Re: Cluster setup

Looks good to me!

On 12/12/12 16:10, Kevin Burton wrote:
&gt; So now I have
&gt;
&gt; [azureuser@bsicentos3 ~]$ sudo riak-admin member-status Attempting to 
&gt; restart script through sudo -H -u riak 
&gt; ================================= Membership 
&gt; ==================================
&gt; Status Ring Pending Node
&gt; ----------------------------------------------------------------------
&gt; ------
&gt; ---
&gt; valid 32.8% -- 'riak@10.79.108.25'
&gt; valid 34.4% -- 'riak@10.79.110.52'
&gt; valid 32.8% -- 'riak@10.79.90.11'
&gt; ----------------------------------------------------------------------
&gt; ------
&gt; ---
&gt; Valid:3 / Leaving:0 / Exiting:0 / Joining:0 / Down:0
&gt;
&gt; Does this look right?
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; -----Original Message-----
&gt; From: Shane McEwan [mailto:sh...@mcewan.id.au]
&gt; Sent: Wednesday, December 12, 2012 9:58 AM
&gt; To: Kevin Burton
&gt; Cc: riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; Subject: Re: Cluster setup
&gt;
&gt; Run the join commands on the OTHER machines . . . NOT the master.
&gt;
&gt; Use the master's IP address in the join commands but the actual 
&gt; command must be run on the non-master machines. You're telling the "slave"
&gt; machines to join the cluster by telling them which machine they need 
&gt; to talk to to get the cluster information.
&gt;
&gt; On 12/12/12 15:51, Kevin Burton wrote:
&gt;&gt; \\*So again from the master I do 'sudo riak-admin cluster join
&gt;&gt; riak@10.79.90.11 ' but I get:\\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; [sudo] password for azureuser:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Attempting to restart script through sudo -H -u riak
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Failed: This node is already a member of a cluster
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\*Looking at the plan:\\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; [azureuser@bsicentos1 ~]$ sudo riak-admin cluster plan
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Attempting to restart script through sudo -H -u riak
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; =============================== Staged Changes 
&gt;&gt; ================================
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Action Nodes(s)
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; ---------------------------------------------------------------------
&gt;&gt; -
&gt;&gt; ---------
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; join 'riak@10.79.108.25'
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; ---------------------------------------------------------------------
&gt;&gt; -
&gt;&gt; ---------
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; NOTE: Applying these changes will result in 1 cluster transition
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; #####################################################################
&gt;&gt; #
&gt;&gt; #########
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; After cluster transition 1/1
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; #####################################################################
&gt;&gt; #
&gt;&gt; #########
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; ================================= Membership 
&gt;&gt; ==================================
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Status Ring Pending Node
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; ---------------------------------------------------------------------
&gt;&gt; -
&gt;&gt; ---------
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; valid 0.0% 50.0% 'riak@10.79.108.25'
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; valid 100.0% 50.0% 'riak@10.79.110.52'
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; ---------------------------------------------------------------------
&gt;&gt; -
&gt;&gt; ---------
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Valid:2 / Leaving:0 / Exiting:0 / Joining:0 / Down:0
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; WARNING: Not all replicas will be on distinct nodes
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Transfers resulting from cluster changes: 32
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; 32 transfers from 'riak@10.79.110.52' to 'riak@10.79.108.25'
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\*I don't see riak@10.79.90.11  in the
&gt;&gt; cluster.\\*
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; -----Original Message-----
&gt;&gt; From: Shane McEwan [mailto:sh...@mcewan.id.au]
&gt;&gt; Sent: Wednesday, December 12, 2012 9:43 AM
&gt;&gt; To: Kevin Burton
&gt;&gt; Cc: riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; Subject: Re: Cluster setup
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; There's no need to join the "master" to itself. Just join the other 
&gt;&gt; nodes to the master.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
