---
title: "Setting up a project on top of Riak"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-11-26T11:18:40-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05740"
author_name: "Mathieu D'Amours"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-11-26T11:18:40-08:00
---


Hi all,

I'm sorry if my question sounds silly, but I'm not quite use to the OTP way of 
developing an application. There seems to be something I'm not seeing in all 
that.

We're going to develop an application that will use Riak Core, KV, Luwak and 
Search: We might need to create a new storage backend for Riak KV, we will 
design a particular distributed processing scheme using Riak Core and will 
build an HTTP interface using webmachine.

For the moment, we need to build modules, test suites and all that, and those 
are closely tied to the different Erlang components I just talk about, like 
pretty much all the Riak components. So I need those external components to 
work as well as if I installed them using the prepared Riak package found at 
http://github.com/basho/riak . If I use rebar and the OTP way of building 
packages, I end up with quite a few Erlang applications under deps/ (like 
riak\\_core, riak\\_control, eleveldb, etc.), and those just don't work out of the 
box like they seem to when we just grab the prepared Riak package. 

How should we set up a development environment so that Riak and all other 
Erlang applications works, and lets us build our different stuff (storage 
backend, vnodes, web app) on top of it? What's a good way of having good 
versatility when developing? Do we always have to go through rebuilding a brand 
new package after each modification?

Thanks a lot for you attention,

Mathieu
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

