---
title: "Re: Riak Search Precommit Hook in 1.0"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-09-21T11:53:43-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04818"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04816"
author_name: "Russell Brown"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-09-21T11:53:43-07:00
---

On 21 Sep 2011, at 19:09, Greg Pascale wrote:

&gt; A few questions
&gt; 
&gt; 1) Is this fix in the RC1 build that just came out today?

Yes it is.

&gt; 2) How exactly do search-cmd install, the "search" bucket property and the 
&gt; precommit hook fit together now? I'm a bit unclear on what I actually need to 
&gt; do to enable search on a bucket.

To enable search on a bucket do any of the things you mentioned (add the hook, 
set {'search': true}, run search-cmd install my\\_bucket.)

search-cmd install sets the 'search' bucket property to true. The presence of a 
true search bucket property cause the search pre-commit hook to be added to the 
bucket's properties. Likewise, if the pre-commit hook is present but the search 
property is not, the search property is set to true (for example after an 
upgrade.)

Have a look at the code in riak\\_search\\_kv\\_hook.erl[1] specifically the fixup/2 
fun[2].

Cheers

Russell

[1] 
https://github.com/basho/riak\\_search/blob/1.0.0rc1/src/riak\\_search\\_kv\\_hook.erl
[2] 
https://github.com/basho/riak\\_search/blob/1.0.0rc1/src/riak\\_search\\_kv\\_hook.erl

&gt; 
&gt; Thanks.
&gt; 
&gt; --
&gt; Greg
&gt; Clipboard
&gt; 
&gt; On Tuesday, September 20, 2011 at 3:42 PM, Greg Pascale wrote:
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Man, it took a whole day after I complained about this to get it fixed? You 
&gt;&gt; guys are such slackers! :)
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Thanks a bunch!
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; -- 
&gt;&gt; Greg
&gt;&gt; Clipboard
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On Tuesday, September 20, 2011 at 1:47 PM, Andrew Thompson wrote:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; On Tue, Sep 20, 2011 at 10:53:28AM -0700, Greg Pascale wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Hi Jon,
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Thanks for getting back to me.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; I'm doing full-text indexing, but I don't need to keep the text around 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; once my object has been indexed, so I wrote a second precommit hook to 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; remove the text from the object. This reduces the size of my objects 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; drastically (since text tends to be the largest part) and has given us 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; substantial perf gains in our tests.
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; I just pushed a fix for this. It should be present in the next 1.0
&gt;&gt;&gt; prerelease.
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; https://github.com/basho/riak\\_search/pull/87
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Andrew
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt; 

