---
title: "Re: riak_kv_cache_backend config questions"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-08-23T07:38:45-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04422"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04420"
author_name: "Tony Bussieres"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-08-23T07:38:45-07:00
---


Thanks Kelly!

So, if I understood well.

with a config like this :
riak\\_kv\\_cache\\_backend\\_ttl 60
\\*riak\\_kv\\_cache\\_backend\\_max\\_ttl 300

\\*If I put a key at time 0, and access it will disappear after 60 second.
If I put a key at time 0, and access it at time 50, it will disappear at
time 110
If I put a key at time 0, and access it every 15 seconds, it will disappear
after 300 seconds.

I'm I right?

Regards,

-tony

On Tue, Aug 23, 2011 at 10:22 AM, Kelly McLaughlin  wrote:

&gt; Tony,
&gt;
&gt; riak\\_kv\\_cache\\_backend\\_ttl is the amount of time to extend an object's lease
&gt; or lifespan when accessed whereas \\*riak\\_kv\\_cache\\_backend\\_max\\_ttl is the
&gt; amount of time after which no further extensions should be granted. \\*
&gt;
&gt; Kelly
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Aug 23, 2011, at 7:49 AM, Tony Bussieres wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Hi all,
&gt;
&gt; Could someone explain with an example what's the difference between :
&gt;
&gt; \\*riak\\_kv\\_cache\\_backend\\_max\\_ttl
&gt; and
&gt; \\*\\*riak\\_kv\\_cache\\_backend\\_ttl
&gt;
&gt; Does the value of riak\\_kv\\_backend\\_max\\_ttl is also in seconds?
&gt;
&gt; Here's a snippet from the documentation found at
&gt; http://wiki.basho.com/Configuration-Files.html
&gt; \\*
&gt;
&gt; - \\*riak\\_kv\\_cache\\_backend\\*
&gt; A backend that behaves as an LRU-with-timed-expiry cache
&gt; - \\*riak\\_kv\\_cache\\_backend\\_memory\\*
&gt; Maximum amount of memory to allocate, in megabytes (default: “100”)
&gt; - \\*riak\\_kv\\_cache\\_backend\\_ttl\\*
&gt; Amount by which to extend an object’s expiry lease on each access,
&gt; in seconds (default: “600”)
&gt; - \\*riak\\_kv\\_cache\\_backend\\_max\\_ttl\\*
&gt; Maximum allowed lease time (default: “3600”)
&gt;
&gt; Thanks!
&gt;
&gt; -tony

