---
title: "Riak 1.1 and Innostore 1.0.4"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-02-21T05:47:06-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06666"
author_name: "Jared Morrow"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-02-21T05:47:06-08:00
---


Riak Users,

We are pleased to announce the release of Riak 1.1. This release is a special 
one because it introduces both our new administration console Riak Control and 
our new diagnostic package Riaknostic. Most importantly to some of you 
though, is its much improved behavior in large clusters.

Download here: http://basho.com/resources/downloads/
 
The best way to learn about everything in 1.1 can be found in the release notes 
here: https://github.com/basho/riak/blob/master/RELEASE-NOTES.org There are 
some known issues listed as well, so please take the time to look through it.

The Riak Chef Cookbook has already been updated for 1.1 and can be found on 
Opscode's community site: http://community.opscode.com/cookbooks/riak

----

With the 1.1 release of Riak, we also are releasing the 1.0.4 version of 
Innostore. If you are a innostore user, you must use version 1.0.4 with Riak 
1.1. You can find the latest innostore on the downloads page: 
http://basho.com/resources/downloads/

One other thing to note, the naming has changed a bit in innostore to more 
closely resemble the package names of Riak. \\*el5 == RHEL 5, \\*el6 == RHEL 6, 
and \\*fc == Fedora This is different than Innostore 1.0.3, so update your 
download scripts accordingly!

----

The first link I posted has a link to a webinar registration that is happening 
on February 29th and will be an overview of all of 1.1's features from Dave 
"Dizzy" Smith. Please think about attending!

Thanks as always for being an amazing community!
-The Basho Team
