---
title: "Re: Any interest in Seattle office hours or meetup?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-08-08T10:22:49-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08219"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg08195"
author_name: "Parnell Springmeyer"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-08-08T10:22:49-07:00
---


Cool idea. Are there any Basho guys in Austin, Texas?

On Aug 7, 2012, at 2:22 PM, Joseph Blomstedt wrote:

&gt; As many of you already know, Basho is largely a distributed company
&gt; with the majority of many teams working remotely from their homes,
&gt; coffee shops, and co-working spaces across the country. There's no
&gt; reason you need to live near one of our offices in order to interact
&gt; with Basho engineers and developer advocates -- we're everywhere.
&gt; 
&gt; With that said, I'd like to set something up in Seattle to engage with
&gt; local Riak users and enthusiasts.
&gt; 
&gt; Some thoughts:
&gt; -- Weekly office hours at a coffee shop or co-working location.
&gt; -- Monthly or bi-monthly Riak meetup.
&gt; -- Monthly or bi-monthly Riak drinkup.
&gt; 
&gt; Is there anyone in the Seattle area who finds any of these ideas
&gt; interesting? Have a preference? Have other suggestions?
&gt; 
&gt; In short, I'm soliciting any and all feedback. Is anyone in the
&gt; Seattle area interested in having weekly/monthly access to come in and
&gt; pester me (senior engineer at Basho) about anything and everything?
&gt; 
&gt; -Joe
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; -- 
&gt; Joseph Blomstedt 
&gt; Senior Software Engineer
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; http://www.basho.com/
&gt; 
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com


\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

