---
title: "Re: riak-java-client"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-06-14T19:45:56-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00594"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg00593"
author_name: "Dan Reverri"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-06-14T19:45:56-07:00
---


Hi Simon,

Just realized your question was specific to the Java client. I don't see a
way to provide the "arg" property in the Java client. I've filed a bug for
this issue:
http://issues.basho.com/show\\_bug.cgi?id=257

Thanks,
Dan

Daniel Reverri
Developer Advocate
Basho Technologies, Inc.
d...@basho.com


On Mon, Jun 14, 2010 at 7:05 PM, Dan Reverri  wrote:

&gt; Hi Simon,
&gt;
&gt; Static arguments can be passed to MapReduce queries using the "arg"
&gt; property. Here is an example query that runs over all the keys in the bucket
&gt; "bucket":
&gt; {
&gt; "inputs": "bucket",
&gt; "query": [
&gt; {
&gt; "map": {
&gt; "language": "javascript",
&gt; "source": "function(value, keyData, arg) { return [arg];
&gt; }",
&gt; "keep": true,
&gt; "arg": "static data"
&gt; }
&gt; }
&gt; ]
&gt; }
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Daniel Reverri
&gt; Developer Advocate
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; d...@basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Mon, Jun 14, 2010 at 6:42 PM, Simon Cusack wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi all,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I hope this is the right place to ask this.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I have been playing with the riak-java-client via clojure which has
&gt;&gt; been great.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; However I cant find a way to pass static args using MapReduceBuilder.
&gt;&gt; My javascript map function is like this;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; function(value, keyData, arg){
&gt;&gt; if (some\\_predicate(value, arg)){
&gt;&gt; return munged(value);
&gt;&gt; }
&gt;&gt; return [];
&gt;&gt; }
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I am trying to workout how to pass the "arg".
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Any pointers would be greatly appreciated.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; regards, Simon Cusack.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

