---
title: "Re: Riak security"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-09-30T14:23:44-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04957"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04950"
author_name: "Aphyr"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-09-30T14:23:44-07:00
---



On 09/30/2011 01:28 PM, Kyle Quest wrote:

Having separate nodes for reads and writes provides an opportunity for
better isolation and control even when the requests are forwarded to
different vnodes...


I humbly suggest this is a bad idea. Varying behavior between nodes

 a.) is a headache to configure and maintain
 b.) creates fault-tolerance problems
 c.) creates unbalanced loads

It's at odds with the symmetric layout of a dynamo system. Best case, 
you'll fail more often. In addition, splitting reads and writes will 
require you to work harder to handle client IDs. If you aren't careful, 
you'll lose data.



Just like with anything else you can always build something on top...
The difference in maturity is determined by what you have to build
yourself vs what's already available and integrated into a unified
solution. Yes, there are different and unique aspects to how NoSQL
databases operate, but it's no excuse for not having any integrated
security. It's going to take time for integrated solutions to emerge,
but this is exactly what I was saying about the maturity stage the
NoSQL databases are in.


What was the last datastore you \\*didn't\\* have to wrap in your own 
security layer? I've built... I dunno, twenty or thirty of them for 
various applications. Because trust is complicated, sufficiently general 
security systems require almost as much configuration and integration 
glue as the code you'd write to do it from existing primitives.


That said, if you have a proposal for a security model I'd like to see 
it. There is a dearth of pluggable access control layers for datastores. 
I suspect there's a good reason for that.



Either way saying, "you customer go take care of our database
product security" is not the answer :-)


It is an entirely reasonable answer; access control is almost totally 
orthogonal to robust data storage. You're asking Ikea to control who 
puts things in your cabinets.


I'm guessing the reason your posts appear so confused is because you 
don't have a clear idea about what properties a "database security" 
system would have. It might be worth writing down your specific 
requirements, and asking "What percentage of use cases will this satisfy 
efficiently?"


--Kyle Kingsbury

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

