---
title: "RE: Riak Adoption - What can we do better?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-04-29T07:46:51-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07345"
author_name: "Fredrik Lindström"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-04-29T07:46:51-07:00
---


Hi Mark,
sorry for the late response on this but here it is.

Our solution was 100% Windows Server based.
Riak is the reason we added Linux as an operating system to our solution.
We are very happy with Riak, it performs beautifully and reliably.
We are very happy with Linux, it performs beautifully and reliably.

The downside for us is that we have yet another OS to maintain, patch and so 
forth.
To clarify, it's not about Windows being better than Linux or vice versa.

We would have adopted Riak much faster had Windows been a supported platform.
I'm guessing this holds true for many MS developers out there, if they even 
know about Riak.

/F

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
From: riak-users-boun...@lists.basho.com [riak-users-boun...@lists.basho.com] 
on behalf of Mark Phillips [m...@basho.com]
Sent: Thursday, April 19, 2012 7:31 PM
To: riak-users
Subject: Riak Adoption - What can we do better?

At this point Riak has been deployed thousands of times. This is excellent, but 
as you can imagine we here at Basho feel this is just the tip of the iceberg. 
We want everyone to be running Riak. The software obviously needs to solve 
enough problems for people to want to deploy it. However, we need to get the 
software into developers' hands before this happens. So the question is:

What can we be doing better?

I'm not talking so much about features in Riak itself. I'm more interested in 
the other resources, tools, docs, processes, etc., that you think we need to 
put in place or refine to take the Riak community from 1000s of users to 
100,000s of users. By virtue of being on this list, you've all spent some time 
using or investigating Riak. As such, you're opinions and experiences would be 
very valuable.

Any comments, ideas, or thoughts you had would be great. On or off-list will 
work.

Thanks for your time. Long live the vnode!

Mark
twitter.com/pharkmillups
