---
title: "Re: Substring Search"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-03-25T20:56:37-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07044"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg07043"
author_name: "Hursh Prasad"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-03-25T20:56:37-07:00
---


Yes I would like a similar setup as well and checked into ElasticSearch, I
am searching on short phrases less then 200 characters I do not want to
miss trailing words in compound words like ball in basketball.

It seems the only option I have is SQL databases that support regular
expressions (please correct me if I am wrong).

I think that is unfortunate, I prefer the performant index/querying,
replication ease, and non-impedance of JSON document store capability of
NoSql db's.

Hursh

On Sun, Mar 25, 2012 at 10:03 PM, John D. Rowell  wrote:

&gt; We use ElasticSearch for everything search related, even when the
&gt; persistence layer happens in Riak, Redis or MongoDB. If you're using JSON
&gt; to store your Riak documents it's just a matter of storing the documents on
&gt; ElasticSearch also (also HTTP/JSON, with a REST API) and you get fully
&gt; clustered, sharded, cloud-aware, extremely fast Lucene-compatible searches
&gt; with very little effort.
&gt;
&gt; -jd
&gt;
&gt; Em 25 de março de 2012 17:28, Hursh Prasad 
&gt; escreveu:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Yeah I am talking Riak Search, I did not see anything or any approaches.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; It seems like there isn't a good NoSQL solution out there.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Sun, Mar 25, 2012 at 4:17 PM, Erik Søe Sørensen wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Are you talking about plain Riak, or using secondary indexes, or of Riak
&gt;&gt;&gt; Search?
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; The question makes most sense in context of Riak Search.
&gt;&gt;&gt; If the page
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://wiki.basho.com/Riak-Search---Querying.html
&gt;&gt;&gt; is up-to-date, then the answer appears to be 'no' - wildcards (\\*,?) are
&gt;&gt;&gt; supported, but
&gt;&gt;&gt; "Currently, the wildcard must come at the end of the term in both
&gt;&gt;&gt; cases."
&gt;&gt;&gt; i.e. only prefix queries can be used, not queries of arbitrary
&gt;&gt;&gt; substrings.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Trusting that someone will correct me if I'm wrong,
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; /Erik
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Mobile: + 45 2636 1755 | Skype: eriksoesorensen | Twitter: @eriksoe
&gt;&gt;&gt; Trifork A/S | Margrethepladsen 4 | DK- 8000 Aarhus C | Phone : +45
&gt;&gt;&gt; 8732 8787 | www.trifork.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt;&gt; From: riak-users-boun...@lists.basho.com [
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users-boun...@lists.basho.com] On Behalf Of Hursh Prasad [
&gt;&gt;&gt; hu...@theeggofcolumbus.com]
&gt;&gt;&gt; Sent: 25 March 2012 22:04
&gt;&gt;&gt; To: riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; Subject: Re: Welcome to the "riak-users" mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Does Riak support (or what are the options for) substring search?
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Example "ball" or "bal" in basketball?
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt;&gt; Hursh
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
