---
title: "Riak Recap for Oct. 29 - 31"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-11-01T16:13:36-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01441"
author_name: "Mark Phillips"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-11-01T16:13:36-07:00
---


Afternoon, Evening, Morning to all,

Here is a short recap from the last few days.

Enjoy!

Mark

Community Manager
Basho Technologies
wiki.basho.com
twitter.com/pharkmillups

----

Riak Recap for Oct. 29 - 31

1) I'm not sure how this repo eluded my watchful eye for this long,
but it's shame that it did... For any Sproutcore fans out there,
Maurits Lamers and a few others are working on something called
"OrionNodeRiak" which is a Node-based server and database-frontend for
Sproutcore.

GitHub Repo here ---&gt; http://github.com/mauritslamers/OrionNodeRiak

Added to the Riak Wiki here under "JavaScript" here ---&gt;
https://wiki.basho.com/display/RIAK/Community-Developed+Libraries+and+Projects

2) Timothy Perret (@timperret) gave a Riak preso at Bathcamp over the weekend.

His slides are here ---&gt; http://www.slideshare.net/timperrett/bathcamp-2010riak

Thanks for presenting and posting these, Timothy!

3) Q --- Is it possible to configure riak to fail an update instead of
generating a conflict? (from jonas11235 via #riak)

 A --- No. The closest thing would be to use the "If-None-Match"
header but that is only supported in the HTTP interface and probably
won't accomplish what you're trying to do.

4) Q --- When doing a map-step of a whole bucket, can you choose how
many keys to map before calling the reduce? I am generating a lot of
data in memory and it could be reduced away if just I called the
following reduce step more often. (from jlouis via #riak)

 A --- Not currently. The reduce function is run occasionally as
the bucket is processed and MapReduce doesn't wait for the whole map
process to finish before running the reduce.

5) The team at Joyent posted a great blog called "Riak SmartMachine
Benchmark: The Technical Details." This one is not to be missed as
there are both in depth benchmark numbers and extensive details on how
they were produced.

Post here ---&gt; 
http://joyeur.com/2010/10/31/riak-smartmachine-benchmark-the-technical-details/

