---
title: "riak deployment"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-08-12T03:45:01-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00871"
author_name: "Orlin Bozhinov"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-08-12T03:45:01-07:00
---


I can easily wait for Riak Search to do this 
http://groups.google.com/group/mongodb-user/browse\\_thread/thread/c2563a8566591a30/b3d19f21675a899e
- instead of mongodb. Does this deployment I have in mind make sense:


I'll get a medium (or large) Linode box for the big dataset bucket. 
Hopefully you can give me an idea about how much RAM I'll need for 
that. This is batch-generated data. It takes time to generate, but 
(once added) it will not change. Because of that I'd like to save some 
money and not replicate it. I plan to have 2 other small Linode servers 
and run a Riak cluster of 3. Can I tell Riak to keep the big bucket 
exclusively on the big server? It will be used only for queries. So if 
the server crashes, I can just reboot it, expecting the same data back 
up. Because it's a single-node bucket (if that's even possible to have 
in a cluster), I probably still won't be "linking" to it from other 
buckets (so when it fails, the impact is minimal). Or maybe I should 
keep it in a separate (single node) cluster anyway?


Cluster separation means I can run the smaller cluster elsewhere. The 
Joyent + Riak news is very exciting! I couldn't afford to put the big 
bucket dataset on it (another reason to have 2 clusters) and I'd have to 
go with the smallest SmartMachines for starters. Would 256 MB RAM be 
good enough (just for Riak)? What kind of load can that handle? I'm 
also tempted to just run everything on Linode. It's about 3 times 
cheaper (as far memory goes) and the upgrades are less dramatic. Would 
you recommend that (for low-budget)? I imagine there will be an easy 
(Linode -&gt; Joyent) Riak migration path...


Orlin

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

