---
title: "Re: Use of fallback nodes for get requests?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-08-04T05:27:53-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00841"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg00840"
author_name: "Nico Meyer"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-08-04T05:27:53-07:00
---


I just saw https://issues.basho.com/show\\_bug.cgi?id=275 , which would
actually be just what I need.

Am Mittwoch, den 04.08.2010, 13:58 +0200 schrieb Nico Meyer:
&gt; Hi Justin,
&gt; 
&gt; I think we are coming from two different directions here, leading to
&gt; some confusion. You seem to treat a get for a non existing key as an
&gt; error, in which case all your points are valid of course. I suspected
&gt; that this is the reason for the current design choice, but I didn't see
&gt; it stated anywhere explicitly. And also notfound seems to be handled
&gt; differently from other types of errors, at least in the way it is
&gt; signalled to the client, so I didn't immediately think of it as an error
&gt; case.
&gt; On the other hand there are many applications where asking for a key
&gt; that has never been put is perfectly valid, an not\\_found is indeed the
&gt; right answer in that case. Our application is an example of that. The
&gt; key is given (it is a unique cookie ID), and we need to check if we saw
&gt; a specific ID before in a certain context and if so get some data that
&gt; was associated with the ID back then. More often than not this is not
&gt; the case, so notfound is the expected answer.
&gt; 
&gt; If you read my original mail again with that use case in mind it might
&gt; become clearer what my problem with the current design is.
&gt; 
&gt; Having to fulfil the precondition that we only do gets for keys we know
&gt; to have been put before would require another datastore for that
&gt; purpose, which seems kind of akward and unnecessary, since riak has all
&gt; the required data to handle our use case.
&gt; 
&gt; Please let me know if I need to further clarify my thoughts about this.
&gt; English is not my first language and its hard enough to reason about
&gt; these things in German and face-to-face :-).
&gt; 
&gt; Cheers,
&gt; Nico
&gt; 
&gt; Am Montag, den 02.08.2010, 22:29 -0400 schrieb Justin Sheehy: 
&gt; &gt; Hi, Nico.
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; On Mon, Aug 2, 2010 at 1:19 PM, Nico Meyer  wrote:
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; What I mean is, if I do a get request for a key with R=N, and one of the
&gt; &gt; &gt; first N nodes in the preflist is down the request will still succeed.
&gt; &gt; &gt; Why is that? Doesn't that undermine the purpose of seting R to a high
&gt; &gt; &gt; number (specifically setting it to N)? That way a request might succeed
&gt; &gt; &gt; even if all primary nodes responsible for the key are unavailable.
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; You are correct, and this is intentional. There is nothing in the R
&gt; &gt; or W settings that is intended to indicate anything at all about
&gt; &gt; "primary" nodes. It is rather simply the number of successful
&gt; &gt; responses that the client wishes to wait for, and thus the degree of
&gt; &gt; quorum sought before a client reply is sent. Using fallback nodes to
&gt; &gt; satisfy reads is a natural result of using fallback nodes to satisfy
&gt; &gt; writes.
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; &gt; If all primary nodes responsible for a key are unavailable, but enough
&gt; &gt; of the fallback nodes for that key have received a value for that key
&gt; &gt; since they went unavailable (through a fallback write) then a request
&gt; &gt; to get that key might succeed. I am not sure why you see this as a
&gt; &gt; bad thing.
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; (It will only succeed if R nodes actually provide a successful result,
&gt; &gt; not just if they are available.)
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; On a similar note, why is the riak\\_kv\\_get\\_fsm waiting for at least
&gt; &gt; &gt; (N/2)+1 responses, if there are only not\\_found responses, effectively
&gt; &gt; &gt; ignoring a smaller R value of the request if the key does not exists?
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; This is a compromise to deal with real situations that can occur where
&gt; &gt; a single node might be taking a very long time to reply, and a value
&gt; &gt; has never been stored for a given key. Without either this basic
&gt; &gt; quorum default for notfounds or alternately considering a notfound as
&gt; &gt; success and thus only waiting for R of them, that situation would mean
&gt; &gt; that an R=1 request would take much longer to complete than an R=2
&gt; &gt; request (due to waiting for the slow node) which is confusing to most
&gt; &gt; users. Note that since it applies to notfounds, this tends to only
&gt; &gt; come into play for items that have never been successfully stored with
&gt; &gt; at least a basic quorum -- things that really are not present, that
&gt; &gt; is.
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; My guess was, that this also has to do with the use of fallback nodes:
&gt; &gt; &gt; Since the partition will usually be very small on the fallback/handoff
&gt; &gt; &gt; node, it is likely to be the first to answer. So to avoid returning
&gt; &gt; &gt; false not\\_found responses, a basic quorum is required.
&gt; &gt; &gt; Am I on the right track here?
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; It doesn't have anything to do with fallback nodes explicitly. It is
&gt; &gt; for situations where a node is under any condition that will slow it
&gt; &gt; down significantly. In such situations, there is little to be gained
&gt; &gt; in waiting for all N replies if (N/2)+1 have already declared
&gt; &gt; notfound.
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; The problem is, this is imposed even for the case that all nodes are up.
&gt; &gt; &gt; If one requires very low latency or very high availability (that's why
&gt; &gt; &gt; one uses a small R value in the first place) and does a lot of gets for
&gt; &gt; &gt; non existent keys, riak silently screws you over by raising R for those
&gt; &gt; &gt; keys.
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; It seems that there is something here worth clarifying. If you are
&gt; &gt; issuing requests with W+R&lt;=N, and some reads following writes return
&gt; &gt; notfound during an interval immediately following initial storage
&gt; &gt; time... well, that's what you asked for by not requesting a quorum.
&gt; &gt; If you store the object with a sufficiently high W value first, then
&gt; &gt; you will not get this sort of notfound response even if your R value
&gt; &gt; is only 1.
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; I suppose that providing the freedom to do this might be considered
&gt; &gt; "screwing you over," but we see it more as allowing you to make
&gt; &gt; different choices while still providing safe and unsurprising default
&gt; &gt; behavior. If you try hard enough to screw yourself over, though, Riak
&gt; &gt; won't stop you. If you issue write requests (to any dynamo-model
&gt; &gt; system) with some W, followed immediately by a read request with some
&gt; &gt; R, and W+R is not greater than N, you should not be expecting the
&gt; &gt; write to necessarily be reflected yet.
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; I most likely missed something here, but some ad hoc test I did seem to
&gt; &gt; &gt; be consistent with my understanding of the code.
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; You have certainly put some real effort into understanding some
&gt; &gt; choices made in the Riak code, which I appreciate. I hope that I have
&gt; &gt; helped to extend your understanding of the real operational scenarios
&gt; &gt; that have motivated those choices, and how the code will behave in
&gt; &gt; those scenarios.
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; Best,
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; -Justin
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 

