---
title: "RE: Cluster on startup."
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-11-06T20:39:34-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg09219"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg09218"
author_name: "Kevin Burton"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-11-06T20:39:34-08:00
---


 

I installed from source and I had directories dev1, dev2, dev3, and dev4.
Each of those directories had sub-directories of bin and etc. I am assuming
that I need the contents of these directories. What is the bare minimum that
I need to start up a cluster like the Quick Start? Each of these directories
contain about 6Mb of "stuff". I would hope that not all of this is needed.
Where does the "name" come from that would be put in the client
configuration like CorrugatedIron?

 

From: Reid Draper [mailto:reiddra...@gmail.com] 
Sent: Tuesday, November 06, 2012 9:36 PM
To: Kevin Burton
Cc: riak-users@lists.basho.com
Subject: Re: Cluster on startup.

 

 

On Nov 6, 2012, at 5:43 PM, Kevin Burton  wrote:

This is probably an FAQ but I was unable to find an answer so hopefully
there will be some patient people.

 

The "Quick Start" builds a simple cluster all on the same machine (called
dev1, dev2, and dev3). It assigns the ports, IP addresses, etc. I would like
to do something similar but I would like the cluster to startup
automatically. What do I need to add to the configuration file so that all
of the joins etc. happen on startup? This would be a Ubuntu Server if it
makes any difference.

 

There is no configuration option to do this. However, once the nodes have
been joined to a cluster, they'll

remain part of the same cluster even if they're restarted. Hope this helps.

 

Reid

 

 

Thank you.

 

Kevin

 

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
  riak-users@lists.basho.com
 
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

 

