---
title: "Re: Achieving 100% consitency"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-08-30T12:50:53-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04526"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04524"
author_name: "Les Mikesell"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-08-30T12:50:53-07:00
---


On Tue, Aug 30, 2011 at 2:33 PM, Jeremiah Peschka
 wrote:
&gt; That's the advice I usually give and the exact same reasons I give it.
&gt;
&gt; In an off-list email (as Jonathan knows), I equated it to saying "You should 
&gt; never do RDBMS development without a big enterprise grade server with $500k 
&gt; of SAN behind it." I typically say to build a dev environment that is as 
&gt; close to production as will give you production-like performance. Putting 3 
&gt; nodes on my crappy stock laptop HDD isn't going to give me anything remotely 
&gt; like a production environment (well… there is always EC2 performance).
&gt;
&gt; We see these questions a lot on the list and I don't feel that telling 
&gt; clients "Well, it's gonna suck until you get it into production" isn't the 
&gt; best possible answer. A lot of people seem to be developing on 3-node 
&gt; clusters made out of Mac Minis, HP micro servers, and EC2; but even more 
&gt; people seem to be developing on laptops and wondering why they're seeing 
&gt; horrible performance.

How do you test the inconsistent states you will see in production
when you develop with a one-node cluster? Or, for that matter on a
3-node cluster on the same box where partitioning isn't going to
happen without some unusual intervention to emulate it?

-- 
 Les Mikesell
 lesmikes...@gmail.com

