---
title: "Re: Riak 1.0"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-10-22T03:12:28-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05244"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg05231"
author_name: "Nico Meyer"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-10-22T03:12:28-07:00
---


Hello Jim,

it sounds like the ring\\_creation\\_size in your app.conf file is
inconsistent with the actual ring size on your existing nodes. This
would happen, if the ring\\_creation\\_size in the config was changed after
the ring as been created. As the name implies, the setting is only used
when starting a fresh/empty node for the first time, so changing it
afterwards has no real effect, other than showing up in the riak-admin
output and severly confusing people ;-).

So to fix your problem, first of all, since the real ring size is 64,
your new node must also have a ring size of 64. So do as Dan suggested,
but set the ring\\_creation\\_size to 64 instead of 256.
At that point joining might already work. I checked the code, and if the
new gossip protocol is used, riak checks for equality the actual ring
sizes of the two nodes to join. But if the legacy gossip protocol is
still used, riak compares the ring\\_creation\\_size config settings of both
nodes.

In any case, you should change the ring\\_creation\\_size on all your nodes
to 64 and restart them, if only to make thing consistent again.

Cheers,
Nico

Am 22.10.2011 09:46, schrieb Jim Adler:
&gt; For the bitcask backend, ring\\_num\\_partitions=64 and
&gt; ring\\_creation\\_size=256. I haven't seen where to set
&gt; ring\\_num\\_partitions in app.config. I have about 8 million keys stored
&gt; in this cluster.
&gt;
&gt; So, how do I bring up a LevelDB node and join to the existing cluster
&gt; given this 64/256 partitions/creation\\_size config?
&gt;
&gt; Thanks for the help!
&gt;
&gt; Jim
&gt;
&gt; From: Dan Reverri &gt;
&gt; Date: Fri, 21 Oct 2011 09:41:02 -0700
&gt; To: Jim Adler &gt;
&gt; Cc: Ian Plosker &gt;,
&gt; "riak-users@lists.basho.com "
&gt; &gt;
&gt; Subject: Re: Riak 1.0
&gt;
&gt; The "ring\\_creation\\_size" parameter in app.config must be set before
&gt; the node has been started and written a ring file. Assuming the
&gt; LevelDB node is empty, you can do the following:
&gt;
&gt; 1. Stop the node
&gt; 2. Clear out the data directories (data/ring, data/leveldb,
&gt; data/bitcask, data/mr\\_queue, data/kv\\_vnode)
&gt; 3. Verify "ring\\_creation\\_size" is set to 256 in the app.config file
&gt; 4. Start the node
&gt; 5. Verify "ring\\_num\\_partitions" in "riak-admin status" is 256
&gt; 6. Join the node to the cluster
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; Dan
&gt;
&gt; Daniel Reverri
&gt; Developer Advocate
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; d...@basho.com 
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Fri, Oct 21, 2011 at 9:30 AM,  &gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt; 64 on the LevelDB vs 256 on the Bitcask. I guess that’s it.
&gt; Workaround?
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt;
&gt; Jim
&gt;
&gt; \\*From:\\*Dan Reverri [mailto:d...@basho.com ]
&gt; \\*Sent:\\* Friday, October 21, 2011 9:27 AM
&gt; \\*To:\\* Jim Adler
&gt; \\*Cc:\\* Ian Plosker; riak-users
&gt; \\*Subject:\\* Re: Riak 1.0
&gt;
&gt; Hi Jim,
&gt;
&gt; Can you check "ring\\_num\\_partitions" on each node from "riak-admin
&gt; status"?
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; Dan
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Daniel Reverri
&gt; Developer Advocate
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; d...@basho.com 
&gt;
&gt; 2011/10/20 Jim Adler  &gt;
&gt;
&gt; I tried the Bitcask-to-LevelDB procedure on 1.0.1 to switch my
&gt; backend from Bitcask to LevelDB. I have one node on Bitcask with
&gt; my data and the other node with a fresh LevelDB backend. When I
&gt; join the fresh LevelDB node, I get the following error: Failed:
&gt; r...@xx.xx.xx.xx  has a different
&gt; ring\\_creation\\_size
&gt;
&gt; riak-admin status | grep creation gives: ring\\_creation\\_size : 256
&gt;
&gt; Any ideas?
&gt;
&gt; Jim
&gt;
&gt; \\*From:\\*riak-users-boun...@lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; [mailto:riak-users-boun...@lists.basho.com
&gt; ] \\*On Behalf Of \\*Ian
&gt; Plosker
&gt; \\*Sent:\\* Saturday, October 01, 2011 8:15 AM
&gt; \\*To:\\* 54chen
&gt; \\*! Cc:\\* riak-users
&gt; \\*Subject:\\* Re: Riak 1.0
&gt;
&gt; There are instructions on the wiki:
&gt; 
&gt; http://wiki.basho.com/Secondary-Indexes.html#Migrating-an-Existing-Cluster-(Method-One)
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt;
&gt; Basically, you will have each node leave the cluster, switch the
&gt; backend, and then rejoin. The process is something like this:
&gt;
&gt; 1) Issue `riak-admin leave` and wait for all transfers to complete
&gt;
&gt; 2) `riak stop`
&gt;
&gt; 3) Change the backend to the `riak\\_kv\\_eleveldb\\_backend`
&gt;
&gt; 4) `riak start` and `riak-admin join `
&gt;
&gt; 5) Repeat for each node in the cluster
&gt;
&gt; Ian Plosker
&gt;
&gt; Developer Advocate
&gt;
&gt; Basho Technologies
&gt;
&gt; On Sep 30, 2011, at 10:41 PM, 54chen wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Congratulations!
&gt;
&gt; Can you give me an example of how the 0.14.2（bitcas! k） upgrade
&gt; to 1.0（levelDB）?
&gt;
&gt; 2011/10/1 Alexander Sicular  &gt;
&gt;
&gt; Awesome!
&gt;
&gt; Already got it in place on my mac and ubuntu dev boxes. Smooth.
&gt;
&gt; -Alexander Sicular
&gt;
&gt; @siculars
&gt; http://siculars.posterous.com 
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Sep 30, 2011, at 4:31 PM, David Smith wrote:
&gt;
&gt; &gt; Hi All,
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; I am very pleased to announce that Riak 1.0 is tagged and officially
&gt; &gt; ready for downloading.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Pre-built installations and source tarballs are available at:
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; http://downloads.basho.com/riak/CURRENT
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Release notes are here:
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; https://github.com/basho/riak/blob/1.0/RELEASE-NOTES.org
&gt; 
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; There is also a blog post about the release here:
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; http://blog.basho.com/2011/09/30/Riak-1-dot-0-is-Official/
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; 1.0 has been two years and 15 releases in the making. Thank you all
&gt; &gt; for being a part of this project and wonderful community. We couldn't
&gt; &gt; have done it without you.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Sincerely,
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; D.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; --
&gt; &gt; Dave Smith
&gt; &gt; Director, Engineering
&gt; &gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; &gt; diz...@basho.com 
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com 
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users
&gt; \\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com 
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; -- 
&gt; -
&gt; http://www.54chen.com 
&gt; http://twitter.com/54chen
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com 
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com 
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;

