---
title: "Re: Stopping/Starting Riak."
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-01-14T02:34:43-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg09812"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg09810"
author_name: "Richard Shaw"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-01-14T02:34:43-08:00
---


No problem Kevin

Regards

Richard

On Sun, Jan 13, 2013 at 9:37 PM, Kevin Burton  wrote:
&gt; The problem seemed to go away. I was some other password request. Sudo
&gt; password requests always have the string '[sudo]' in it so I can tell where
&gt; it came from. This prompt just asked 'Password: '. Anyway I cannot reproduce
&gt; it now so I guess it is resolved. Thank you and sorry for the 'false alarm'.
&gt;
&gt; -----Original Message-----
&gt; From: Richard Shaw [mailto:rich...@basho.com]
&gt; Sent: Saturday, January 12, 2013 8:22 PM
&gt; To: Kevin Burton
&gt; Cc: Justin Sheehy; riak-users
&gt; Subject: Re: Stopping/Starting Riak.
&gt;
&gt; Hi Kevin
&gt;
&gt; Try:
&gt;
&gt; sudo su -
&gt;
&gt; Then:
&gt;
&gt; /etc/init.d/riak stop
&gt;
&gt; What happens and what's the output?
&gt;
&gt; Regards
&gt;
&gt; Richard
&gt;
&gt; On Sat, Jan 12, 2013 at 3:35 PM, Kevin Burton 
&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt; It is not sudo. I have already entered the password for sudo at this
&gt; point.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; -----Original Message-----
&gt;&gt; From: Justin Sheehy [mailto:jus...@basho.com]
&gt;&gt; Sent: Saturday, January 12, 2013 9:30 AM
&gt;&gt; To: Kevin Burton
&gt;&gt; Cc: riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; Subject: Re: Stopping/Starting Riak.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Jan 12, 2013, at 10:26 AM, Kevin Burton wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; I noticed that I have no problem with 'sudo /etc/init.d/riak stop'.
&gt;&gt;&gt; But,
&gt;&gt; when I try to start the process with 'sudo /etc/init.d/riak start' I
&gt;&gt; am met with a prompt for a password. What is the password? I don't
&gt;&gt; recall setting a password.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; That is sudo, not Riak, asking for your password. You should use the
&gt;&gt; same password that you use to log in to that machine.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; -Justin
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

