---
title: "Re: riak + hdf5 = awesome time series system?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-06-21T13:06:15-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00628"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg00622"
author_name: "Sundberg, Patrik"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-06-21T13:06:15-07:00
---


Thanks for the reply.

Ok, if no good way of querying "inside" values (being time series) then answer 
is probably "no, it's not a bright idea".

I'll read your link, thanks.


\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_

From: Dan Reverri  
To: Sundberg, Patrik 
Cc: riak-users@lists.basho.com  
Sent: Mon Jun 21 19:37:54 2010
Subject: Re: riak + hdf5 = awesome time series system? 


I'm not familiar with HDF5 but Riak only exposes get/put/delete/list\\_keys for 
any given backend which means other functionality from HDF5 would not be 
available to Riak.

You can review a previous discussion on time series data in Riak here:
http://riak.markmail.org/search/?q=time#query:time+page:1+mid:43du3afmercobvi5+state:results

Thanks,
Dan

Daniel Reverri
Developer Advocate
Basho Technologies, Inc.
d...@basho.com



On Mon, Jun 21, 2010 at 6:36 AM, Sundberg, Patrik  
wrote:


 Hi,

 

 I have been looking at a lot of different alternatives for working with 
time series data. The likes of kdb and fame are obviously tried, tested and 
suitable solutions but also with a hefty price tag and closed source. On the 
open source side I haven’t so far found a good holistic approach. What I have 
found is that HDF5 is a very good and efficient library for storing and 
retrieving time series data (and numerical datasets in general), but it’s sort 
of a single user/single system setup, but in terms of layers on top of it for 
replication, network connectivity etc I haven’t seen much.

 

 Doing my initial reading around riak I was happy to see that there’s 
pluggable backend storage and it provides a lot of the higher level features 
one would want. So I put the two together and asked myself the question “Would 
riak with a HDF5 storage backend make a nice system for working with time 
series data?”

 

 I don’t know the answer to that question yet and need to do more 
reading to understand riak but I thought I’d throw the idea out there and see 
if what comes back. 

 

 The basic query would typically be “for series identified by name(s) X 
(,Y,Z), give me the data for the time window between N to M”.

 

 Regards,

 Patrik

 

 

 

 

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_

 

 The information contained in this communication is confidential and 
intended only for the individual(s) named above. If you are not a named 
addressee, please notify the sender immediately and delete this email from your 
system. The views expressed in this email are the views of the author and do 
not necessarily represent the views of Millennium Capital Partners LLP (MCP 
LLP) or any of its affiliates. Outgoing and incoming electronic communications 
of MCP LLP and its affiliates, including telephone communications, may be 
electronically archived and subject to review and/or disclosure to someone 
other than the recipient. MCP LLP is authorised and regulated by the Financial 
Services Authority. 

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_


 

 

 


 \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
 riak-users mailing list
 riak-users@lists.basho.com
 http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
 
 



######################################################################
The information contained in this communication is confidential and 
intended only for the individual(s) named above. If you are not a named
addressee, please notify the sender immediately and delete this email
from your system. The views expressed in this email are the views of
the author and do not necessarily represent the views of Millennium
Capital Partners LLP (MCP LLP) or any of its affiliates. Outgoing
and incoming electronic communications of MCP LLP and its affiliates,
including telephone communications, may be electronically archived and
subject to review and/or disclosure to someone other than the recipient.
MCP LLP is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
######################################################################
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

