---
title: "Re: Race condition reading objects"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-11-01T05:37:12-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05406"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg05404"
author_name: "Rusty Klophaus"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-11-01T05:37:12-07:00
---


Hi Elias,

Whew, that is some top-shelf debugging. Glad to hear you were able to track
down the issue.

Best,
Rusty

On Tue, Nov 1, 2011 at 1:49 AM, Elias Levy wrote:

&gt; On Mon, Oct 31, 2011 at 11:14 PM, Elias Levy 
&gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Mon, Oct 31, 2011 at 2:01 PM, Rusty Klophaus  wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Thanks for your excellent description of the problem. We haven't seen
&gt;&gt;&gt; this before to my knowledge, and this isn't expected behavior.
&gt;&gt;&gt; Also, if you can share your code, or if you have a small script that can
&gt;&gt;&gt; reproduce the failure, that would be extremely helpful.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I created a small test script that reliable reproduces the issue, but I
&gt;&gt; created another version that creates truly independent clients (distinct
&gt;&gt; processes) and I could not reproduce it. So there issue must lie somewhere
&gt;&gt; in my Fiber based client software stack. Somewhere within em-synchrony or
&gt;&gt; EventMachine some shared state must be getting clobbered at high processing
&gt;&gt; rates, or the high rate is causing EventMachine to return a short read
&gt;&gt; under some circumstances.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Figured it is a false implementation of read in em-synchrony's TCPSocket.
&gt; It implements recv's behavior, returning partial results, instead of
&gt; read's behavior of waiting for enough data or an EOF. Logged at
&gt; https://github.com/igrigorik/em-synchrony/issues/77.
&gt;
&gt;


-- 
Rusty Klophaus (@rustyio)
\\*Basho Technologies, Inc.\\*
www.basho.com
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

