---
title: "Re: Memory Utilization"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-05-26T20:42:24-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00445"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg00443"
author_name: "Jason J. W. Williams"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-05-26T20:42:24-07:00
---


That's terrific. We're very familiar with InnoDBs buffer pool and
that's exactly the kind of control we're looking for. With the
InnoStore backend is the crash recovery/durability similar to InnoDB
under MySQL?

-J

On Wed, May 26, 2010 at 8:13 PM, Sean Cribbs  wrote:
&gt; Riak's usage of memory primarily depends on the backend you choose.  
&gt; Innostore, for example, has a configurable buffer pool (cache) which can help 
&gt; you limit the memory footprint.  Bitcask, our most recently released backend, 
&gt; keeps only a hash mapping keys to file/offset in memory (with the value only 
&gt; on disk), so you could store thousands of keys per node without noticing much.
&gt;
&gt; Outside of the backend, Riak generally only needs enough RAM to have copies 
&gt; of objects in transit -- either being written or read.  If you see it using 
&gt; too much RAM, there are some flags to the Erlang VM that can be tweaked.
&gt;
&gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt; Developer Advocate
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; http://basho.com/
&gt;
&gt; On May 26, 2010, at 6:23 PM, Jason J. W. Williams wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; We have a couple of projects we want to start small and to this point
&gt;&gt; we've been considering MongoDB or Cassandra. Mongo's main drawback for
&gt;&gt; us is it's extensive use of mmap, which can make it a bad neighbor
&gt;&gt; vis-a-vis RAM usage if it has to co-exist with other parts of our
&gt;&gt; stack. Cassandra's has it's own drawbacks for our use cases.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Riak looks very interesting, but we're curious about it's memory
&gt;&gt; profile. That is what drives memory consumption in Riak, is it
&gt;&gt; possible to limit the memory consumption, and how does Riak behave
&gt;&gt; when memory exhaustion occurs?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; -J
&gt;
&gt;

