---
title: "Re: about random-generated keys and UUIDs"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-03-11T04:32:18-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg02615"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg02614"
author_name: "Antonio Rohman Fernandez"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-03-11T04:32:18-08:00
---


sure, i'm not confusing with MD5, this algorithm is a joke to use as a secure 
hashing mechanism, too many collisions.
about SHA-1... from wikipedia: "A 2008 attack by Stéphane Manuel breaks the 
hash function, as it can produce hash collisions with a complexity of 251 
operations", so, even hard, collisions are possible.
either way, glad to know the random id in Riak is fairly trustful, no more 
questions then : ) thanks

Rohman
 

 Antonio Rohman Fernandez
CEO, Founder & Lead Engineer
roh...@mahalostudio.com
 Projects
MaruBatsu.es
PupCloud.com
Wedding Album
 

On Mar 11, 2011, at 7:48 PM, Alexander Sicular wrote:

&gt; Sven is correct. But in exactitude this is a base 62 encoding (a-zA-Z0-9). 
&gt; The collision function of concern here is the erlang implementation of sha. 
&gt; Oh, and ya, have a high degree of confidence in it. 
&gt; 
&gt; On Mar 11, 2011 6:40 AM, "Sven Johansson"  wrote:
&gt; &gt; On Fri, Mar 11, 2011 at 11:16 AM, Antonio Rohman Fernandez &lt;
&gt; &gt; roh...@mahalostudio.com&gt; wrote:
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt;&gt; well, maybe i'm wrong, but i don't think base64 is very collision-free if
&gt; &gt;&gt; you have millions of entries in a same bucket... because even your 
&gt; &gt;&gt; algorithm
&gt; &gt;&gt; include some uniqueness on it, base64 encoding it could get into some
&gt; &gt;&gt; collision:
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; base64(superawesomeuniquestring) can be same as
&gt; &gt;&gt; base64(anothersuperawesomeuniquestring)
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; Actually, that's not correct. Base64 is just a simple encoding algorithm,
&gt; &gt; completely lossless and with a unique output for every unique input.
&gt; &gt; In other words, base64(somestring) != base64(someotherstring) always holds
&gt; &gt; true.
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; Maybe you are confusing it with destructive cryptographic functions like MD5
&gt; &gt; ?
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; Sven Johansson
&gt; &gt; Twitter: @svjson

