---
title: "Re: Setting up a Riak + Mongrel2 Stack"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-08-24T09:06:59-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04449"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04447"
author_name: "Sean Cribbs"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-08-24T09:06:59-07:00
---


I think at the current time, setting up Mongrel2 as a front-end to Riak is a
bad idea. For one, if you're just looking for a load-balancer, there are
other well-tested existing solutions. Also, I have attempted to set up
Mongrel2 in front of some simple Ruby processes and some things that Riak
supports (e.g. chunked-encoding uploads) simply don't work. If you are
willing to downgrade your HTTP capabilities, and you want to have an
application between your front-end and Riak, then feel free to use it.

On Wed, Aug 24, 2011 at 11:38 AM, Jonathan Langevin &lt;
jlange...@loomlearning.com&gt; wrote:

&gt; I dunno about mongrel, but I know some of the guys at basho have personally
&gt; used a proxy in front of Riak (Matt Heitzenroder is one that's mentioned it
&gt; before, I've CC'd him).
&gt;
&gt; My thought is that if you can find out the general configuration method of
&gt; how to set up a proxy in front of Riak (such as how it may differ from a
&gt; typical proxy, if there's any special headers you have to pass, what
&gt; settings to apply regarding caching, etc), you could then take that info to
&gt; the Mongrel community and get some specific help there for implementing the
&gt; proxy configuration with the general information you've gleamed from the
&gt; Basho guys.
&gt;
&gt; 
&gt; \\* Jonathan Langevin
&gt; Systems Administrator
&gt; Loom Inc.
&gt; Wilmington, NC: (910) 241-0433 - jlange...@loomlearning.com -
&gt; www.loomlearning.com - Skype: intel352 \\*
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Tue, Aug 23, 2011 at 5:28 PM, trevor stanhope wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; exactly. I'm looking to setup mongrel2 as front-end to a Riak kvs.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Tue, 2011-08-23 at 14:25 -0400, Jonathan Langevin wrote:
&gt;&gt; &gt; Is your intention to use mongrel as a proxy for Riak?
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; Jonathan Langevin
&gt;&gt; &gt; Systems Administrator
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; Loom Inc.
&gt;&gt; &gt; Wilmington, NC: (910) 241-0433
&gt;&gt; &gt; - jlange...@loomlearning.com - www.loomlearning.com - Skype: intel352
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; On Thu, Aug 18, 2011 at 2:01 AM, trevor stanhope
&gt;&gt; &gt;  wrote:
&gt;&gt; &gt; Hey, I've been probing around for any existing examples of a
&gt;&gt; &gt; Riak +
&gt;&gt; &gt; Mongrel2 stack being deployed and haven't had any luck. I'm
&gt;&gt; &gt; not familiar
&gt;&gt; &gt; with Mongrel2 but it was recommended to me and I'm very
&gt;&gt; &gt; interested in
&gt;&gt; &gt; deploying on that platform. What recommendations or who would
&gt;&gt; &gt; be best to
&gt;&gt; &gt; speak with on that subject?
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; Best Regards,
&gt;&gt; &gt; Trev Stanhope
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;

-- 
Sean Cribbs 
Developer Advocate
Basho Technologies, Inc.
http://www.basho.com/
