---
title: "Re: Error Installing Erlang Client"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-06-07T09:37:00-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00516"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg00515"
author_name: "Jon Meredith"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-06-07T09:37:00-07:00
---

Hi Ted,

Have you changed the port you run PBC on? The default is 8087 and you 
are trying on 8091.


2&gt; {ok, Pid} = riakc\\_pb\\_socket:start\\_link("127.0.0.1", 8087).
{ok,&lt;0.36.0&gt;}
3&gt; riakc\\_pb\\_socket:ping(Pid).
pong


Jon

On 6/7/10 10:28 AM, Ted Karmel wrote:

Thanks Jon! That seems to have done the trick and I do get the
location of the beam file as a response.

But unfortunately, not off to the races yet.

Another noob error that I hope list members will bear with.

I have set up a Riak cluster based on the Fast Track doc.

Then based on the Erlang Client Introduction (
https://wiki.basho.com/display/RIAK/Erlang+Client+PBC )

I set up a client connection

 {ok, Pid} = riakc\\_pb\\_socket:start\\_link("127.0.0.1", 8091).


{ok,&lt;0.35.0&gt;}

But then I get an error when trying a ping:

 riakc\\_pb\\_socket:ping(Pid).


\\*\\*exception exit: {timeout, {gen\\_server, call, [&lt;0.35.0&gt;, {req, rpbpingreq}]}}
in function gen\\_server:call/2


Do I need to set up Riak differently (i.e. not in a cluster)? Have I
missed some install steps? Do I need to ....

I can almost taste the riak soup...


On Mon, Jun 7, 2010 at 3:41 PM, Jon Meredith wrote:


Hi Ted,

You should just need the riak-erlang-client/ebin and the protobuffs library.
 Here's an example on my local machine. I just checked the docs and there's
a mistake in there. The module you can test to see if you have it all set
up correctly is riakc\\_pb\\_socket.

jons-macpro:systest jmeredith$ erl -pa ~/basho/riak-erlang-client/ebin
~/basho/riak-erlang-client/deps/protobuffs/ebin
Erlang R13B04 (erts-5.7.5) [source] [smp:8:8] [rq:8] [async-threads:0]
[hipe] [kernel-poll:false]

Eshell V5.7.5 (abort with ^G)
1&gt; code:which(riakc\\_pb\\_socket).
"/Users/jmeredith/basho/riak-erlang-client/ebin/riakc\\_pb\\_socket.beam"

Sorry for any confusion. Hopefully you'll be off to the races, Jon.

On 6/7/10 7:33 AM, Ted Karmel wrote:


I have a similar problem to an earlier mailing list post :

http://lists.basho.com/pipermail/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com/2010-May/001094.html

I tried following
riak/client\\_lib/riak-erlang-client/docs/pb-client.txt plus the
suggestions in that post all to no avail.

But, here is in detail what I attempted:


 erl -pa $PATHTORIAKC/ebin

I naturally replaced PATHTORIAKC :
/home/tedkarmel/riak/client-libs/riak-erlang-client

It seems to work but then I get 'non\\_existing' when I tried to enter


 code:which(riak\\_pb\\_client).

I then tried the suggested alternative installation


 cd riak-erlang-client


 ./rebar install

I get the following error message:

Error: One or more modules listed in riackc.app are not present in
ebin/\\*.beam
\\*riackc\\_obj
\\*riackc\\_pb
\\*riackc\\_pb\\_socket
\\*riackclient\\_pb

I then tried the following which was suggested in the previous mailing
post about installation errors:


make clean&& make all

Then I try again


 ./rebar install

which works this time

But when I try again


code:which(riak\\_pb\\_client).

I get


 non\\_existing

I then tried as suggested in the previous mailing list post about the
error


 erl -pa ebin/ deps/\\*/ebin

But still get the non\\_existing error

help... :(
