---
title: "confused"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-09-15T12:40:26-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01078"
author_name: "Nils Petersohn"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-09-15T12:40:26-07:00
---


hello,

i was setting up 9 riak instances:

three on my mac with the appropriate app config
and six with two virtual machines on a different computer.

all 8 joined the d...@192.168.1.20
and the join request was sent.

after setting this up:
i wanted to put data with the java client on d...@192.168.1.20 than i got a 
timeout ?!?

when i put data on one of the other machines than only this machine was using 
cpu time and none of the other ...
if consistent hashing works like expected, than all the machines should show up 
on "top"

when i did a mapreduce job than only this machine was using cpu time and none 
of the other ...

i had "top" running on all of them.

-------------------------------------------------------
the other problem is:

when i have 1/2 mio. entrys in one bucket with less than 100 chars for each 
entry
and i do a really simple mapreduce job, than it takes forever (15 minutes ...)
while sql uses .005 secons....

i know that doing a mr on a complete bucket, than it takes very long if i don't 
secify keys in the bucket. but how should i know which keys to use ...
------------------------------------------------------

if i put stuff in one bucket and add a machine with the join request, how can i 
rebalance the bucket???? so that the other machine is taking some values too.

------------------------------------------------------

i don't understand these issues/behaviors (timeout, 15min. etc., rebalancing), 
maybe i was setting the one of the three params incorrect ? i left everything 
to the default settings.

thx in advance for any hints...

nils
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

