---
title: "Re: hidding buckets and keys"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-05-27T05:50:07-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03457"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg03454"
author_name: "Eric Moritz"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-05-27T05:50:07-07:00
---


Don't trust any client that you put in the hands of someone else. i.e.
mobile client, client-side web app, etc. It would take anyone with a packet
sniffer 5 seconds to figure out you're using Riak and then they have the
Riak docs to step them through how to read/write arbitrary values from your
cluster.


On Fri, May 27, 2011 at 3:02 AM, Ben Tilly  wrote:

&gt; I would strongly advise you that mobile clients should not be trusted to
&gt; access your data directly. Because someone \\*will\\* reverse engineer them,
&gt; and \\*will\\* see what they can see. You really do need an API between your
&gt; mobile application and the mobile service.
&gt;
&gt; I know you think you don't. You're headed down the common path of blocking
&gt; things that you know are risky. However decades of experience say very
&gt; clearly that allowing requests by default then blocking what is known to be
&gt; harmful is a recipe for security disaster. The ONLY sane approach is to
&gt; block everything, then allow only what is KNOWN to be safe. Talk to any
&gt; security expert than they will agree, you absolutely don't want to hand out
&gt; raw access to your data (including inserts and deletes) to untrusted
&gt; clients.
&gt;
&gt; As for your assertion that the cloud just failed for you if you have an API
&gt; - nothing could be farther from the truth. A front end API on top of Riak
&gt; can be a very thin layer that can run on multiple machines with load
&gt; balancing and failover using a variety of standard techniques.
&gt;
&gt; For your use case you should build an API. Really.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Thu, May 26, 2011 at 11:10 PM, Antonio Rohman Fernandez &lt;
&gt; roh...@mahalostudio.com&gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; "In our case, the only nodes that are allowed to hit the Riak cluster are
&gt;&gt; those of our applications"... what if your app is more complex than that and
&gt;&gt; you have thousands of servers all around the world ( different datacenters,
&gt;&gt; different networks ) with crawlers, scanners, blackboxes, etc... all
&gt;&gt; communicating with Riak and adding/removing new
&gt;&gt; scanners/crawlers/blackboxes/etc... every now and then... quite troublesome
&gt;&gt; to set up and maintain a firewall for that.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; "It is not recommended that you deploy Riak on the public internet"...
&gt;&gt; what if apart from webservers with a web-app i want to build
&gt;&gt; iPhone/iPad/Android apps that access Riak directly? one thing i love from
&gt;&gt; Riak is its RESTfull architecture, but if i have to build some API somewhere
&gt;&gt; for the mobile apps to interact with Riak... well... the 'cloud' paradigm
&gt;&gt; just vanished for me... also, i would have a single point of failure on the
&gt;&gt; API implementation.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; any other suggestions?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Rohman
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Fri, 27 May 2011 01:20:00 -0400, Alexander Sicular 
&gt;&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi Rohman,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; It is not recommended that you deploy Riak on the public internet. Keep
&gt;&gt; all access private and then implement iptables on each individual node
&gt;&gt; securing access to upstream clients.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Ports to keep in mind -
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; http(s) port (8098)
&gt;&gt; protocol buffers port (8099)
&gt;&gt; epmd (4369)
&gt;&gt; forcing the range of ports erlang uses to communicate amongst other erlang
&gt;&gt; nodes.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; The latter is not part of the default configuration but I think it should
&gt;&gt; be. At least commented out in app.config.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Put it right at the top of the config array above the riak\\_core
&gt;&gt; directives like so:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; [
&gt;&gt; %% limit dynamic ports erlang uses to communicate
&gt;&gt; %% pick some range that works in your environment
&gt;&gt; %{kernel, [
&gt;&gt; % {inet\\_dist\\_listen\\_min, 21000},
&gt;&gt; % {inet\\_dist\\_listen\\_max, 22000}
&gt;&gt; %]},
&gt;&gt; %% Riak Core config
&gt;&gt; {riak\\_core, [
&gt;&gt; ...
&gt;&gt; Cheers,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Alexander Sicular
&gt;&gt; @siculars
&gt;&gt; http://sicuars.posterous.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Friday, May 27, 2011 at 12:55 AM, Antonio Rohman Fernandez wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; hello all,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; http://IP:8098/riak?buckets=true [ will show all available buckets on
&gt;&gt; Riak ]
&gt;&gt; http://IP:8098/riak/bucketname?keys=true&props=false [ will show all
&gt;&gt; available keys on a bucket ]
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; to me, this proves a very big security risk, as if somebody discovers your
&gt;&gt; Riak server's IP, is very easy to read all the information from it, even if
&gt;&gt; you try to obfuscate the buckets/keys... everything is highly readable.
&gt;&gt; there is any way to disable those options? like {riak\\_kv\\_stat, false}
&gt;&gt; hides the /stats page
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; thanks
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Rohman
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; [image: line][image: logo]  \\*Antonio Rohman 
&gt;&gt; Fernandez\\*
&gt;&gt; CEO, Founder & Lead Engineer
&gt;&gt; roh...@mahalostudio.com \\*Projects\\*
&gt;&gt; MaruBatsu.es 
&gt;&gt; PupCloud.com 
&gt;&gt; Wedding Album [image: line]
 --
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; [image: line][image: logo]  \\*Antonio Rohman 
&gt;&gt; Fernandez\\*
&gt;&gt; CEO, Founder & Lead Engineer
&gt;&gt; roh...@mahalostudio.com \\*Projects\\*
&gt;&gt; MaruBatsu.es 
&gt;&gt; PupCloud.com 
&gt;&gt; Wedding Album [image: line]
&gt;&gt;
&gt;

