---
title: "Re: RSpec using Ripple"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-12-05T06:31:19-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05856"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg05855"
author_name: "Sean Cribbs"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-12-05T06:31:19-08:00
---


Run the 'ripple:test' generator, you will get some lines added to your
spec\\_helper.rb (before/after hooks) and some boilerplate for configuring
the Ripple::TestServer. Then you simply need to edit the config/ripple.yml
to add the "source" key to the test environment (tell it where your local
`riak` and `riak-admin` scripts are installed). Note that the latest test
server does support Riak 1.0 but it does not include support for secondary
indexes.

On Mon, Dec 5, 2011 at 2:59 AM, Yehuda Zargrov  wrote:

&gt; Hi,\\*\\*\\*\\*
&gt;
&gt; \\*\\* \\*\\*
&gt;
&gt; I know that ripple does have support for testing rails with RSpec but I
&gt; can’t find any documentation on this (or an example).\\*\\*\\*\\*
&gt;
&gt; \\*\\* \\*\\*
&gt;
&gt; Can anyone share an example or know where I can read more about this?\\*\\*\\*\\*
&gt;
&gt; \\*\\* \\*\\*
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,\\*\\*\\*\\*
&gt;
&gt; \\*\\*\\*\\*
&gt;
&gt; [image: Description:
&gt; C:\\Users\\Yehuda\\AppData\\Roaming\\Microsoft\\Signatures\\logo.gif]\\*\\*\\*\\*
&gt;
&gt; \\*Yehuda Zargrov\\*\\*
&gt; \\*Software Engineer\\*\\*\\*\\*
&gt;
&gt; \\*Conduit Your Site\\* \\*\\*\\*\\*
&gt;
&gt; \\*t:\\* 972.8.9461713 ext +314 | \\*m:\\* +972503473119 | \\*f:\\* +97286382140
&gt; \\*\\*\\*\\*
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; This message may contain confidential and/or privileged information. It is
&gt; intended to be read only by the individual or entity to whom it is
&gt; addressed or by their designee.
&gt; If the reader of this message is not the intended recipient, you are on
&gt; notice that any uses, copy, disclose or distribution of this message, in
&gt; any form, is strictly prohibited.
&gt; If you have received this message in error, please notify the sender by
&gt; reply email or by telephone and delete or destroy any copy of this message.
&gt; Thank you.
&gt;
&gt; \\*\\*\\*\\*
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;


-- 
Sean Cribbs 
Developer Advocate
Basho Technologies, Inc.
http://www.basho.com/
&lt;&gt;\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

