---
title: "Re: Ripple & Dynamic Default Values"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-02-10T09:28:41-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg02264"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg02262"
author_name: "Mat Ellis"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-02-10T09:28:41-08:00
---


Yes, I got NameError: undefined method `foo' for class `Class' when I tried 
that.

M.

On Feb 10, 2011, at 6:48 AM, Sean Cribbs wrote:

&gt; Mat,
&gt; 
&gt; Did you try method(:foo) ? Method objects respond to :call.
&gt; 
&gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt; Developer Advocate
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; http://basho.com/
&gt; 
&gt; On Feb 10, 2011, at 8:29 AM, Mat Ellis wrote:
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; For anyone else trying to do this, I couldn't find any docs on how to do 
&gt;&gt; dynamic default values.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Objective: add an auto-generated UUID field to a Click model using Twitter's 
&gt;&gt; simple\\_uuid gem.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Class Click
&gt;&gt; include Ripple::Document
&gt;&gt; include SimpleUUID
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; property :uuid, String, :default =&gt; foo
&gt;&gt; key on :uuid
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; def foo
&gt;&gt; UUID.new.to\\_guid
&gt;&gt; end
&gt;&gt; end
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; This just gave me "foo" every time:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Changing default to UUID.new.to\\_guid gave me a nice uuid value but the same 
&gt;&gt; one each time.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; I had to make the default property lambda { UUID.new.to\\_guid } for it to 
&gt;&gt; work.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Many other gems/plugins have a convention that if your value in these cases 
&gt;&gt; is a symbol it treats it as a local function. This would mean changing the 
&gt;&gt; default function in the Ripple gem to something like (untested and untried!):
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; def default
&gt;&gt; default = options[:default]
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; return nil if default.nil?
&gt;&gt; if default.is\\_a? :symbol
&gt;&gt; type\\_cast(self.respond\\_to?(:default) ? self.default : nil)
&gt;&gt; else
&gt;&gt; type\\_cast(default.respond\\_to?(:call) ? default.call : default)
&gt;&gt; end
&gt;&gt; end
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; M.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt; 
