---
title: "Re: tuning riak for 100s of concurrent connections"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-02-23T15:39:18-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg02428"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg02427"
author_name: "Ryan Zezeski"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-02-23T15:39:18-08:00
---


May I also suggest in a heavy GET scenario where the data doesn't change often 
or can be slightly stale that you also make use of some sort of shortly lived, 
in-memory cache. You could also make use of HTTPs conditional GET which avoids 
passing the data over the wire if it hasn't changed.

-Ryan

[Sent from my iPhone]

On Feb 23, 2011, at 3:08 PM, Bob Feldbauer  wrote:

&gt; After importing data into Riak, I'm in a basically 100% GET scenario. I 
&gt; haven't done much load testing other than throwing live traffic at it, but 
&gt; with that I've seen ~150 concurrent connections.
&gt; 
&gt; I'm using Jetty app servers (Riak Java client) which are using protobufs to 
&gt; hit an HAProxy server, which load balances my 7 Riak nodes. I really haven't 
&gt; done anything special, other than using protobufs and fronting Riak with 
&gt; HAProxy.
&gt; 
&gt; Other than that, I would just say "use fast disks" and/or add nodes as needed 
&gt; to hit your capacity targets -- because with that traffic and 7 nodes with 1 
&gt; 1TB disk per node, I'm seeing ~0.5-&lt;1.0 load average on Riak nodes as iowait.
&gt; 
&gt; Feel free to hop on the #riak IRC channel and I'd be happy to try to answer 
&gt; any other questions about our setup.
&gt; 
&gt; - Bob Feldbauer
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; ---------- Forwarded message ----------
&gt;&gt; From: Wilson MacGyver
&gt;&gt; Date: Tue, Feb 22, 2011 at 7:15 PM
&gt;&gt; Subject: tuning riak for 100s of concurrent connections
&gt;&gt; To: riak-users Users
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Are there any guidelines/howtos on tuning riak nodes for 100s
&gt;&gt; (200-500) of concurrent connections
&gt;&gt; which are 99.9% HTTP GET?
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; Omnem crede diem tibi diluxisse supremum.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

