---
title: "Re: Riak_KV::Riak_PB"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-06-29T09:18:09-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07831"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg07830"
author_name: "Andrew Zeneski"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-06-29T09:18:09-07:00
---


I built the 1.2.0pre3 (and master) and now have secondary index lookups working 
in my client api; I am testing search right now but getting errors; is 
RpbSearchQueryReq (PBC) implemented in 1.2?

Thanks!

Andrew

On Jun 28, 2012, at 4:26 PM, Andrew Zeneski wrote:

&gt; Thanks Sean, 
&gt; 
&gt; Indeed, sending either of those messages to Riak will result in a dropped 
&gt; connection. 
&gt; 
&gt; I would like to move forward with my client implementation so that it will be 
&gt; ready when 1.2 is released. 
&gt; 
&gt; Can I join in on the QA and maybe get a snapshot? Or should I be looking for 
&gt; the 1.2 branch on github?
&gt; 
&gt; Andrew
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Jun 28, 2012, at 4:14 PM, Sean Cribbs  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Hi Andrew,
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Those were added to be part of the 1.2 release, which is in testing/QA 
&gt;&gt; phases now. You can expect the release sometime next month. If you intend to 
&gt;&gt; use the .proto files in your client application, be aware that they may not 
&gt;&gt; be supported on the server yet (in fact, 1.1 and earlier will likely dump 
&gt;&gt; the connection).
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On Thu, Jun 28, 2012 at 4:11 PM, Andrew Zeneski  
&gt;&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt; I am working on a new protocol buffer based client using the master riak\\_pb 
&gt;&gt; repository. I would just like to inquire on the state of riak\\_kv with the 
&gt;&gt; latest pb, specifically is RpbIndexReq and RpbSearchQueryReq implemented yet 
&gt;&gt; (I know it is not in 1.1.4), if not is there a road map or any idea when.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Thanks!
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Andrew
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; -- 
&gt;&gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt;&gt; Software Engineer
&gt;&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt;&gt; http://basho.com/
&gt;&gt; 

