---
title: "Re: Riak for eCommerce"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-01-20T09:02:02-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06335"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06333"
author_name: "Dmitry Demeshchuk"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-01-20T09:02:02-08:00
---


Generally, using eventually consistent databases for e-commerce sounds
too risky.

But I know that there was some e-commerce stealth startup using Riak
for their needs (probably not for all the data though, I don't know
any details). Amazon uses Dynamo, which is quite similar to Riak. So
NoSQL can be used in this niche somehow.

Also, intuitively, most of the consistency problems might be avoided
by setting all w/dw values to maximum (better set r to maximum too, of
course).

The hardest task I see here is to organize transactions for the cases
like "we remove a product from database and we should alter all the
orders that contain this product".

On Fri, Jan 20, 2012 at 5:43 PM, Ahmed Al-Saadi  wrote:
&gt; Hello:
&gt;
&gt; After reviewing a few options in the NoSQL space, I am considering using
&gt; Riak for an e-commerce platform. I gather that atomicity (transactions) is
&gt; not supported while durability can be enforced per request (using dw=1 or,
&gt; at least, w=?). In other words, for most non-critical
&gt; reads/writes, r/w can be optimized for availability while critical writes
&gt; must be committed to disk (or to "enough" nodes?), sacrificing availability
&gt; in the process.
&gt;
&gt; Does this describe the state-of-affairs or am I missing something?
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Ahmed Al-Saadi
&gt; Sent with Sparrow
&gt;
&gt;


-- 
Best regards,
Dmitry Demeshchuk

