---
title: "Re: How to work with JSON objects using Erlang?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-02-09T11:22:23-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06570"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06569"
author_name: "Sean Cribbs"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-02-09T11:22:23-08:00
---


Note that Riak already depends on mochiweb, which has the mochijson2 module
(used in Riak for bucket properties and MapReduce).

On Thu, Feb 9, 2012 at 1:57 PM, Ori Bar  wrote:

&gt; A good erlang library for JSON is https://github.com/davisp/jiffy
&gt;
&gt; On Thu, Feb 9, 2012 at 7:27 PM, Jeffrey Eliasen  wrote:
&gt; &gt; I've been playing with Riak for a few weeks now using Python, and
&gt; &gt; JavaScript, so I have ~8M records in JSON stored in my cluster. Now I
&gt; would
&gt; &gt; like to run a map/reduce job that adds links and index data to every
&gt; item.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; From what I understand, this can't be done using JavaScript and
&gt; map/reduce,
&gt; &gt; so I need to use Erlang. I've been learning Erlang for a couple weeks,
&gt; but
&gt; &gt; I'm still pretty new to it overall.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; My question is this: what's the easiest way to manipulate this data? I
&gt; see
&gt; &gt; three options:
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Learn me some Erlang and do it that way...
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Where can I find specific help in learning to manipulate JSON data using
&gt; &gt; Erlang?
&gt; &gt; Am I better off converting every node to Erlang data structures and just
&gt; &gt; using only Erlang from this point forward?
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Use Erlang but call Python code that does the data manipulation...
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Any good references for hooking into Python or other external code from
&gt; &gt; within Erlang?
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Use JavaScript but call Python code that does the re-writes back to the
&gt; &gt; cluster...
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; This appears to be less desireable as M/R jobs will timeout quickly and I
&gt; &gt; can't configure this; any other gotcha's I need to know about?
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Thanks!
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; jeffrey k eliasen
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Best Regards,
&gt;
&gt; Ori Bar, Software Engineer
&gt; Nivertech Ltd
&gt;
&gt; email: ori....@nivertech.com
&gt; phone: +972-52-2838429
&gt; www: http://www.nivertech.com
&gt;
&gt; The content of this message is Nivertech Ltd Confidential. If you are
&gt; not the intended recipient and have received this message in error,
&gt; any use or distribution is prohibited. Please notify me immediately by
&gt; reply e-mail and delete this message from your computer system. Thank
&gt; you.
&gt;


-- 
Sean Cribbs 
Software Engineer
Basho Technologies, Inc.
http://basho.com/
