---
title: "Re: Streaming a binary file from riak via node.js to client"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-05-21T08:18:05-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03380"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg03379"
author_name: "francisco treacy"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-05-21T08:18:05-07:00
---


(I'm CC'ing the mailing list so that everybody can benefit from this)

That's right. You need to include the responseEncoding.

db.get('image', 'test.jpg', { responseEncoding: 'binary' });

I recommend you take a look at the docs. It's all there. http://riakjs.org

Francisco


2011/5/21 Max :
&gt; Francisco,
&gt;
&gt; I tried fetching the image content using a plain http GET request
&gt; without the riak client.
&gt;
&gt; This code worked:
&gt;
&gt; app.get('/images-test', function(req, res) {
&gt;    var options = {
&gt;      host: '127.0.0.1',
&gt;      port: 8010,
&gt;      path: '/riak/images/some.jpg',
&gt;      method: 'GET'
&gt;    };
&gt;
&gt;    var req = http.request(options, function(r) {
&gt;      var str = '';
&gt;
&gt;      r.setEncoding('binary');
&gt;      r.on('data', function (chunk) {
&gt;          str += chunk;
&gt;      });
&gt;      r.on('end', function() {
&gt;          res.send(new Buffer(str, 'binary'), { 'Content-Type': 'image/jpeg' 
&gt; });
&gt;      });
&gt;    });
&gt;
&gt;    req.end();
&gt; });
&gt;
&gt; As soon as I removed r.setEncoding('binary'); the image size was wrong
&gt; again. How can I set the response encoding with the riak client?
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Sat, May 21, 2011 at 2:25 PM, Max  wrote:
&gt;&gt; Francisco, thanks a lot for trying this out and helping me.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I checked that image is a Buffer, I tried console.log(image instanceof
&gt;&gt; Buffer); and the output was "true". Any other ideas on how I could do
&gt;&gt; what I´m trying? I built riak from source, if that makes any
&gt;&gt; difference.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thank you!
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Sat, May 21, 2011 at 2:18 PM, francisco treacy
&gt;&gt;  wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt; It works fine for me under three scenarios:
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; (a) your example, with riak 0.14, riak-js 0.4 and node 0.4.7
&gt;&gt;&gt; (b) riak-js tests (fixture is an image)
&gt;&gt;&gt; (c) my own app that does exactly that for certain images
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; The only thing that differs from your example is that i'm using the
&gt;&gt;&gt; Luwak interface (getLarge instead of get).  So last thing i can think
&gt;&gt;&gt; of is that the image variable is not a Buffer.  Could you check that?
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Francisco
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; 2011/5/21 Max :
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Hi Francisco,
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; thanks for your reply. The versions I use:
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; riak: 0.14
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-js: 0.4
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; node: 0.4.7
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Thank you!
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; On Sat, May 21, 2011 at 1:01 PM, francisco treacy
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;  wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; and which node.js version?
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 2011/5/21 francisco treacy :
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; That should work, but i'll take a look at it. Which versions of
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-js and Riak are you using?
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 2011/5/21 Max :
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; After watching the presentation about how to use node.js with riak, I
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; built some small application on node.js using the express framework.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; In riak files are stored via a PHP frontend but they should be served
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; via a node.js backend. Anyway, connecting to riak via node.js is not
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; that hard and sending the response is also rather easy. But it seems,
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; somewhere the buffer I get via the client.get operation is truncated.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; I am using this code:
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; app.get('/images/', function(req, res){
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;    riakClient.get('images', 'some.jpg', function(err, image, meta) {
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;        if (err) {
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;            throw err;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;        }
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;        res.send(image, {
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;            'Content-Type': meta.contentType
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;        });
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;    });
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; });
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; To test if the image is served, but whenn I access the node.js url,
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; the browser tells me that the image cannot be displayed as it contains
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; errors. The filesize of the served image is too small compared to the
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; original. If I access the url /images/some.jpg directly via rest
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; interface on the command line, the correct image is returned.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Has anyone experience in how to stream binary data from riak?
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Thanks in advance!
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;

