---
title: "Re: LevelDB memory problem crashes Erlang"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-08-10T14:46:22-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08262"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg08261"
author_name: "Joseph Blomstedt"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-08-10T14:46:22-07:00
---


Leo,

This sounds like a tuning issue, the defaults for LevelDB (esp. on
Riak 1.2) use up a decent amount of RAM. There should be upcoming
documentation on all of this, but things are still in the works. In
any case, we should be able to help you out here on the mailing list.

A few questions:
1. What version of Riak? Is this Riak 1.2?
2. How much RAM do you have on your node?
3. Is this a 64-bit machine?

Regards,
Joe

On Fri, Aug 10, 2012 at 1:36 PM, leonickel  wrote:
&gt; Hi all,
&gt;
&gt; I'm facing a weird problem using eleveldb store option data. The amount of
&gt; memory starts to increase while i'm running a script to put data inside
&gt; riak, nearly 10 million of keys in a single bucket and suddenly riak process
&gt; crashes. My object is in json format and is about 1.5 kb each. At the
&gt; momment of running script, the proccess memory (beam.smp) increases to about
&gt; 450mb and then the Erlang crashes. I've got this message on logs:
&gt;
&gt; terminate called after throwing an instance of 'std::bad\\_alloc'
&gt; what(): std::bad\\_alloc
&gt; Erlang has closed
&gt; /usr/lib/riak/lib/os\\_mon-2.2.9/priv/bin/memsup: Erlang has closed.
&gt;
&gt; In my script i'm using java client and sending requests over http protocol.
&gt;
&gt; Here are some more information about my environment and riak configs:
&gt;
&gt; - erlang version: R14B03;
&gt; - os: Ubuntu 11.04;
&gt;
&gt; - single node;
&gt; - n\\_val = 1 (i've tried default value 3 and got the same behavior);
&gt; - ring\\_creation\\_size = 64
&gt; - allow\\_mult = false;
&gt; - last\\_write\\_wins = true;
&gt; - r = 1;
&gt; - w = 1;
&gt;
&gt; I've done the same test using bitcask configuration and works fine, i could
&gt; put all my 10 million keys.
&gt;
&gt; Can anyone help me with this?
&gt;
&gt; Thanks in advance,
&gt;
&gt; Leo
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; View this message in context: 
&gt; http://riak-users.197444.n3.nabble.com/LevelDB-memory-problem-crashes-Erlang-tp4024974.html
&gt; Sent from the Riak Users mailing list archive at Nabble.com.
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com



-- 
Joseph Blomstedt 
Senior Software Engineer
Basho Technologies, Inc.
http://www.basho.com/

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

