---
title: "Re: riak-admin leave behavior"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-04-23T19:49:09-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07303"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg07302"
author_name: "Mark Phillips"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-04-23T19:49:09-07:00
---


Mike,

I'm not sure how much the wiki's explanation contributed to your
understanding of "leave" but it was out of date, so I just updated it
(along with the explanation of "force\\_remove").

http://wiki.basho.com/Command-Line-Tools---riak-admin.html

Sorry about that.

Mark


On Mon, Apr 23, 2012 at 6:53 PM, Joseph Blomstedt  wrote:

&gt; Kyle is correct.
&gt;
&gt; "riak-admin leave" ensures that all replicas are handed off to other
&gt; nodes before the leaving node exits the cluster. This has been the
&gt; behavior since Riak 1.0 (released last September).
&gt;
&gt; "riak-admin force-remove" is the command which immediately removes a
&gt; node from the cluster without ensuring handoff of its replicas. This
&gt; is a dangerous command, and is designed to only be used in cases were
&gt; the normal, safe leave behavior cannot be used -- eg. when the node
&gt; you are removing had a major hardware failure and is unrecoverable.
&gt; Using "force-remove" will result in a loss of all replicas living on
&gt; the removed node, which will need to be recovered through other means
&gt; -- such as read repair.
&gt;
&gt; The standard leave command is an exact opposite of join. Just like a
&gt; join, during a leave, you can inspect the current/pending ring state
&gt; using "riak-admin member\\_status" as well as see the list of pending
&gt; transfers using "riak-admin ring\\_status".
&gt;
&gt; Regards,
&gt; Joe
&gt;
&gt; On Mon, Apr 23, 2012 at 6:26 PM, Kyle Kingsbury  wrote:
&gt; &gt; On 04/23/2012 06:23 PM, Michael Radford wrote:
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; Can someone from Basho clarify?
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; I understood "handoff" to mean just that it was handing off
&gt; &gt;&gt; \\*responsibility\\* for a vnode to another node, and not proactively
&gt; &gt;&gt; creating additional replicas of the data. This information just came
&gt; &gt;&gt; from our technical contact at Basho on 4/18, so I would assume it's up
&gt; &gt;&gt; to date. But I would be happy to learn that riak-admin leave now does
&gt; &gt;&gt; the right thing.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Not that I work for basho, but I can absolutely confirm that riak-admin
&gt; &gt; leave (&gt;= 1.1, don't recall 1.0) does involve taking data the local node
&gt; is
&gt; &gt; responsible for and giving it to the remote node. You can watch the file
&gt; &gt; sizes on hosts or network traffic to confirm.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; --Kyle
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Joseph Blomstedt 
&gt; Software Engineer
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; http://www.basho.com/
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

