---
title: "Re: Efficiency of RIAK"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-10-25T11:55:18-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg09061"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg09060"
author_name: "Денис Мельник"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-10-25T11:55:18-07:00
---


Sure. And the default quorum of three. But I can not believe that in this
configuration, I get a speed of more than 15 000 Put / sec. Rather, it will
be about 10 000. But I'll try, if given the opportunity. A cluster of 3 nodes
with n\\_val = 2 I am testing at the moment - until the rate of &lt;10 000. Not
good...

Denis.

2012/10/25 Chris Hicks 

&gt; FYI the documentation for Riak recommends a 5 node cluster, minimum, for
&gt; production environments for the best utilization of the redundancy and
&gt; also, I believe, load balancing across the cluster.
&gt;
&gt; Chris.
&gt;
&gt; &gt; Date: Thu, 25 Oct 2012 04:29:17 -0700
&gt; &gt; From: denis.mel...@gmail.com
&gt; &gt; To: riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; Subject: Re: Efficiency of RIAK
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; RIAK does not make sense to compare with elevelDB, objective was to
&gt; assess
&gt; &gt; the cost of organizing the cluster.
&gt; &gt; I was surprised by the difference in performance. I expected to order 20
&gt; 000
&gt; &gt; put / sec. Perhaps, RIAK configured incorrect?
&gt; &gt; With these results, you need at least 4 servers with RIAK to replace one
&gt; &gt; server elevelDB. RIAK positioned as a high-performance cluster, I think
&gt; it
&gt; &gt; is contrary to the speed of one node = 6636 put/sec with a record size
&gt; of 55
&gt; &gt; bytes.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; I'm wrong?
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; This is not idle curiosity, I hoped to use it in one of my projects. But
&gt; the
&gt; &gt; cost of the required number of servers will be too big.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; --
&gt; &gt; View this message in context:
&gt; http://riak-users.197444.n3.nabble.com/Efficiency-of-RIAK-tp4025765p4025785.html
&gt; &gt; Sent from the Riak Users mailing list archive at Nabble.com.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

