---
title: "Re: Riak_KV::Riak_PB"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-06-29T10:50:27-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07836"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg07834"
author_name: "Sean Cribbs"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-06-29T10:50:27-07:00
---


Perhaps, but that might some other bug. Can you describe the request you
sent?

BTW, here's the PR that should fix the build/dep problem:
https://github.com/basho/riak\\_core/pull/204

On Fri, Jun 29, 2012 at 12:33 PM, Andrew Zeneski
wrote:

&gt; Thanks Sean,
&gt;
&gt; Would those minor issues explain this error message I get?
&gt;
&gt; client\\_test.go:230: 0: Error processing incoming message:
&gt; error:badarg:[{erlang,list\\_to\\_float,
&gt; [["0.00000",101,43,48]]},
&gt;
&gt; {riak\\_search\\_utils,to\\_float,
&gt; 1},
&gt; {riak\\_search\\_pb\\_query,
&gt; encode\\_results,3},
&gt; {riak\\_search\\_pb\\_query,
&gt; process,2},
&gt; {riak\\_api\\_pb\\_server,
&gt; process\\_message,4},
&gt; {riak\\_api\\_pb\\_server,
&gt; handle\\_info,2},
&gt; {gen\\_server,handle\\_msg,5},
&gt;
&gt; {proc\\_lib,init\\_p\\_do\\_apply,3}]
&gt; FAIL
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Andrew
&gt;
&gt; Andrew,
&gt;
&gt; Yes it is, but we have some minor dependency/build issues to resolve. The
&gt; next pre-release tag should have the appropriate fixes.
&gt;
&gt; On Fri, Jun 29, 2012 at 12:17 PM, Andrew Zeneski  &gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; I built the 1.2.0pre3 (and master) and now have secondary index lookups
&gt;&gt; working in my client api; I am testing search right now but getting errors;
&gt;&gt; is RpbSearchQueryReq (PBC) implemented in 1.2?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks!
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Andrew
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Jun 28, 2012, at 4:26 PM, Andrew Zeneski wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks Sean,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Indeed, sending either of those messages to Riak will result in a dropped
&gt;&gt; connection.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I would like to move forward with my client implementation so that it
&gt;&gt; will be ready when 1.2 is released.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Can I join in on the QA and maybe get a snapshot? Or should I be looking
&gt;&gt; for the 1.2 branch on github?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Andrew
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Jun 28, 2012, at 4:14 PM, Sean Cribbs  wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi Andrew,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Those were added to be part of the 1.2 release, which is in testing/QA
&gt;&gt; phases now. You can expect the release sometime next month. If you intend
&gt;&gt; to use the .proto files in your client application, be aware that they may
&gt;&gt; not be supported on the server yet (in fact, 1.1 and earlier will likely
&gt;&gt; dump the connection).
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Thu, Jun 28, 2012 at 4:11 PM, Andrew Zeneski &gt; &gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; I am working on a new protocol buffer based client using the master
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak\\_pb repository. I would just like to inquire on the state of riak\\_kv
&gt;&gt;&gt; with the latest pb, specifically is RpbIndexReq and RpbSearchQueryReq
&gt;&gt;&gt; implemented yet (I know it is not in 1.1.4), if not is there a road map or
&gt;&gt;&gt; any idea when.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Thanks!
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Andrew
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;

&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt;&gt; Software Engineer
&gt;&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt;&gt; http://basho.com/
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt; Software Engineer
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; http://basho.com/
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;


-- 
Sean Cribbs 
Software Engineer
Basho Technologies, Inc.
http://basho.com/
