---
title: "Re: riak-erlang-client"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-01-10T16:17:16-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01946"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg01943"
author_name: "Dan Reverri"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-01-10T16:17:16-08:00
---


I've pulled in your changes. Thank you for the revised pull request.

Thanks,
Dan

Daniel Reverri
Developer Advocate
Basho Technologies, Inc.
d...@basho.com


On Mon, Jan 10, 2011 at 2:48 PM, Anthony Molinaro &lt;
antho...@alumni.caltech.edu&gt; wrote:

&gt; Hi Dan,
&gt;
&gt; I just managed to get a proper pull request sent to you for just the
&gt; documentation changes. Hopefully it works for you.
&gt;
&gt; I also hope you guys consider joining back with the community of developers
&gt; working on erlang\\_protobuffs so riak can be used along side other protobuff
&gt; based systems.
&gt;
&gt; -Anthony
&gt;
&gt; On Fri, Jan 07, 2011 at 03:57:45PM -0800, Anthony Molinaro wrote:
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; On Fri, Jan 07, 2011 at 03:38:45PM -0800, Dan Reverri wrote:
&gt; &gt; &gt; Hi Anthony,
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; Would you mind sending a pull request for the documentation updates
&gt; without
&gt; &gt; &gt; the protobuffs changes?
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; I was trying to figure out how to do that, but it seems to be alluding
&gt; me,
&gt; &gt; still a bit of a noob with git. I'll try to figure it out and do that.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; Regarding the protobuffs changes, it would be best to apply the changes
&gt; to a
&gt; &gt; &gt; fork of the basho/erlang\\_protobuffs repository and send a pull request.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Well the whole point of this was that basho/erlang\\_protobuffs is an
&gt; ancient
&gt; &gt; fork that went to bitbucket, then when it came back was it's own separate
&gt; &gt; thing from the mainline (everything downstream of Nick Gerakine's
&gt; original
&gt; &gt; implementation). I use the mainline for other projects which I also want
&gt; &gt; to use riak-erlang-client with. So the fact that it had it's own
&gt; &gt; implementation caused some conflicts. Thus I did the work to hand merge
&gt; &gt; the changes from the basho tree into the mainline (the seemed to just be
&gt; &gt; some minor iolist functions). The mainline has had some very nice recent
&gt; &gt; features, the handrolled parser was replaced with a leex/yecc one, and
&gt; &gt; support has been added for many protobuff features (like booleans, enums,
&gt; &gt; packed format, etc). So anyway, maybe there's a way to relink the
&gt; &gt; basho/erlang\\_protobuffs into the mainline? (again I'm a bit of a git noob
&gt; &gt; so no idea if its possible to do that).
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; Regarding the buckets, they should be specified as binaries. I'll fix
&gt; that
&gt; &gt; &gt; now.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Cool, I'll look for it.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; -Anthony
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; --
&gt; &gt; ------------------------------------------------------------------------
&gt; &gt; Anthony Molinaro 
&gt; &gt;
&gt; --
&gt; ------------------------------------------------------------------------
&gt; Anthony Molinaro 
&gt;
