---
title: "Re: Ripple document NoMethodError: undefined method `all' for	Customer:Class"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-10-27T10:24:10-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05331"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg05330"
author_name: "Eric Chaves"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-10-27T10:24:10-07:00
---


Hi Dan,

Thanks for the help. I changed to list method but it seems I'm still doing
something wrong. Calling "Customer.list" raises an exception
"Riak::Bucket#keys is an expensive operation that should not be used in
production" with the results at the end of it.

Letting ripple aside, what would be the recommended way to retrieve a list
of all documents/keys under a certain bucket? Should I use a map/reduce for
that?

Cheers,

Eric

2011/10/27 Dan Reverri 

&gt; Hi Eric,
&gt;
&gt; I believe the method was changed to `list`; I don't know what version of
&gt; Ripple changed the method name.
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; Dan
&gt;
&gt; Daniel Reverri
&gt; Developer Advocate
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; d...@basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Thu, Oct 27, 2011 at 8:59 AM, Eric Chaves  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi Guys,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I'm trying to learn Riak using padrino + ripple and for that I created a
&gt;&gt; padrino project with one Customer model using the Ripple::Document model and
&gt;&gt; start playing around in the padrino console. The project setup seems to be
&gt;&gt; ok since I can create and save instance objects from padrino console however
&gt;&gt; whenever I call Customer.all I got a method undefined error.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Am I doing something wrong here? Is there another way to retrieve all
&gt;&gt; documents within a bucket?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks in advance,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Eric
&gt;
