---
title: "Re: Erlang compilation error"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-02-24T07:29:55-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg02441"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg02430"
author_name: "Luke Bredeson"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-02-24T07:29:55-08:00
---


I used the Fedora Erlang packages. I'll try building Erlang from source and
see where that takes me. Thanks for the advice!

Luke

On Thu, Feb 24, 2011 at 7:37 AM, David Smith  wrote:

&gt; This is almost certainly an artifact of the Erlang installation on
&gt; Fedora -- did you install Erlang from source or use the package? I
&gt; \\_bet\\_ you're missing the erl\\_interface component of Erlang if you're
&gt; using the Fedora available packages.
&gt;
&gt; We do have some fedora packages now for Riak, if you'd like to try that:
&gt;
&gt; http://downloads.basho.com/riak/riak-0.14/riak-0.14.1-1.fc13.i686.rpm
&gt; http://downloads.basho.com/riak/riak-0.14/riak-0.14.1-1.fc13.x86\\_64.rpm
&gt;
&gt; D.
&gt;
&gt; On Wed, Feb 23, 2011 at 9:46 PM, Luke Bredeson 
&gt; wrote:
&gt; &gt; Hello,
&gt; &gt; I was hoping to give riak a try but ran into an odd Erlang issue. I was
&gt; &gt; following the "Fast Track", but got hung up when compiling riak.
&gt; &gt; I cloned riak from github, did "cd riak", then "make all". A few modules
&gt; &gt; appeared to compile correctly, but then I received the following error:
&gt; &gt; ERROR: compile failed while processing /home/luke/riak/deps/skerl:
&gt; &gt; {'EXIT',{function\\_clause,[{lists,thing\\_to\\_list,[{error,bad\\_name}]},
&gt; &gt; {lists,flatmap,2},
&gt; &gt; {lists,flatmap,2},
&gt; &gt; {rebar\\_port\\_compiler,default\\_env,0},
&gt; &gt; {rebar\\_port\\_compiler,compile,2},
&gt; &gt; {rebar\\_core,run\\_modules,4},
&gt; &gt; {rebar\\_core,execute,4},
&gt; &gt; {rebar\\_core,process\\_dir,4}]}}
&gt; &gt; make: \\*\\*\\* [compile] Error 1
&gt; &gt; I'm running Erlang R14B. I know I'm supposed to have R13B04 or later,
&gt; but
&gt; &gt; maybe R14B is too new? Also, I'm on Fedora 14, if that's relevant. Any
&gt; &gt; ideas would be appreciated, as I'm really hoping to getting into trying
&gt; out
&gt; &gt; riak.
&gt; &gt; Thanks,
&gt; &gt; Luke
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Dave Smith
&gt; Engineering Manager
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; diz...@basho.com
&gt;
