---
title: "Re: Riak Recap for November 23 - 27"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-11-28T19:11:45-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05771"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg05770"
author_name: "Jeremiah Peschka"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-11-28T19:11:45-08:00
---


this. This is what I do.
---
Jeremiah Peschka - Founder, Brent Ozar PLF, LLC
Microsoft SQL Server MVP

On Nov 28, 2011, at 7:10 PM, Jeff Kirkell wrote:

&gt; 6) Q --- Are people running riak natively on osx (for development) or
&gt; running on a vm that matches production? (from kenperkins via #riak)
&gt; 
&gt; A --- Anyone? (We had a similar thread on the list several months
&gt; back about this but I figured it couldn't hurt to open it up to more
&gt; discussion.)
&gt; 
&gt; For me, I always develop directly on the Mac first using the standard 4 node 
&gt; environment. When the initial work is done, it is moved up to a shared 
&gt; environment which uses multiple physical Linux machines like production. 
&gt; Setting the ulimit solved the problems I had although I think the wiki's 
&gt; command were not correct and I had to find the exact settings elsewhere.
&gt; 
&gt; Jeff
&gt; 
&gt; On Mon, Nov 28, 2011 at 8:49 PM, Aphyr  wrote:
&gt; 6) Q --- Are people running riak natively on osx (for development) or
&gt; running on a vm that matches production? (from kenperkins via #riak)
&gt; 
&gt; A --- Anyone? (We had a similar thread on the list several months
&gt; back about this but I figured it couldn't hurt to open it up to more
&gt; discussion.)
&gt; 
&gt; We've got a few devs who use riak on OSX for development here, but not 
&gt; heavily. ulimit appears to be a capricious liar on that platform, at least 
&gt; from the issues we've encountered. :/
&gt; 
&gt; I do most of our riak-facing development, and use Ubuntu and Debian as my 
&gt; everyday dev OS. No VMs. We deploy to Ubuntu server.
&gt; 
&gt; --Kyle
&gt; 
&gt; 
 
