---
title: "Re: Riak crash on node restarts"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-11-15T10:16:19-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05586"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg05580"
author_name: "Jon Meredith"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-11-15T10:16:19-08:00
---


Hi Joel,

That's not a message I'd expect to see on a clean restart. We'll need some
more information to diagnose it. Next time it crashes, could you provide
the contents of your ring file (you can just grab the most recent one out
of /var/lib/riak/ring - location may vary depending on your platform) and
it would be very helpful if you could modify your deploy script to capture
the file list for the leveldb directory on \\*all\\* of your nodes immediately
before you bounce riak to do the update. When it crashes, the console.log
from all the nodes would also be useful. If any of those files contain
sensitive information, please contact me off list.

BR, Jon

On Tue, Nov 15, 2011 at 6:48 AM, Jeremy Raymond  wrote:

&gt; I'm using Riak 1.0.1 and I have a script that deploys updates to each of
&gt; my 3 nodes to update the Erlang mapred modules. What I do is stop a node,
&gt; deploy the new mapred modues, restart the node, wait for the riak\\_kv
&gt; service to start, then move onto the next node. Sometimes when I do this
&gt; one of the nodes that is not the current one being updated will go down.
&gt; Each time this has happened thus far it's been the same node that will go
&gt; down (the last one). I see this error in the logs:
&gt;
&gt; [error] Failed to start riak\\_kv\\_eleveldb\\_backend Reason: {db\\_open,"IO
&gt; error:
&gt; /var/lib/riak/leveldb/913438523331814323877303020447676887284957839360/MANIFEST-000002:
&gt; No such file or directory"}
&gt;
&gt; If I manually restart the node, things go back to normal. Any ideas on
&gt; what's going on? I've attached the error log.
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Jeremy
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;


-- 
Jon Meredith
Platform Engineering Manager
Basho Technologies, Inc.
jmered...@basho.com
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

