---
title: "Re: Riak 1.2.0 RC2"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-07-21T20:37:31-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08016"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg08015"
author_name: "Jared Morrow"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-07-21T20:37:31-07:00
---


Riak Users,

The RC2 build has been pulled from the downloads page. Please revert to using 
RC1 for your tests or wait until RC3 is released.

Thanks,
Jared


On Jul 21, 2012, at 8:09 PM, Joseph Blomstedt  wrote:

&gt; Riak Users,
&gt; 
&gt; A critical bug has been identified in the Riak 1.2 RC2 build that was
&gt; not in the earlier RC1 build. If you restart an RC2 node, it will
&gt; overwrite it's ring file with a fresh ring, therefore removing any
&gt; history that the node was part of an existing cluster. In other words,
&gt; if you build a cluster of Riak nodes, and then restart a node, that
&gt; node will no longer be a member of the cluster. Same will happen if
&gt; you upgrade a node, and then restart it.
&gt; 
&gt; Since we know that some users try out RC builds on their staging
&gt; clusters, and sometimes as 1 or 2 nodes out of many on their
&gt; production clusters, we wanted to let everyone know about this bug as
&gt; soon as it was identified. We are going to be pulling the RC2 packages
&gt; later today. A patch for this bug has been created and is being vetted
&gt; right now, an RC3 build should land on Monday.
&gt; 
&gt; If you have run into this issue, you can issue 'riak-admin join -f
&gt; ' on the node that believes it is no longer a
&gt; member of the cluster and the node should re-integrate into the
&gt; cluster without issue.
&gt; 
&gt; For the curious, this bug was quickly identified by the testing
&gt; process we use to qualify RC builds before eventually promoting an RC
&gt; build to an actual release. It just turns out that our process has
&gt; always been to publicly release an RC build as soon as it's cut, and
&gt; then run our QA tests in parallel. Thus, allowing maximum time for
&gt; both Basho internal testing and testing from the community. Before
&gt; releasing the first RC (RC1) build, there are multiple internal
&gt; pre-release builds that are tested using the same process.
&gt; Unfortunately, this particular regression arose in between RC1 and
&gt; RC2.
&gt; 
&gt; Regards,
&gt; Joe
&gt; 
&gt; On Fri, Jul 20, 2012 at 2:21 PM, Jared Morrow  wrote:
&gt;&gt; Riak Users,
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Riak 1.2.0 RC2 has been built and uploaded with changes reported both by
&gt;&gt; users on this list and internal testing.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; The downloads page has been updated with the new build:
&gt;&gt; http://basho.com/resources/downloads/
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Also, the release notes have been updated with bugs fixed in RC2:
&gt;&gt; https://github.com/basho/riak/blob/1.2/RELEASE-NOTES.md
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; The new set of bugs fixed are the following:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; riak\\_api - Add riak\\_core as application dep to riak\\_api.app
&gt;&gt; riak\\_api - Register riak\\_api\\_stat mod with riak\\_core at start up
&gt;&gt; Add eleveldb:close - Fixes MANIFEST file missing bug
&gt;&gt; riak\\_kv - Call eleveldb:close before destroy
&gt;&gt; riak\\_control - Resolve base64 cookie truncation race condition.
&gt;&gt; Fix FreeBSD package permissions on sbin
&gt;&gt; Create SmartOS SMF service for epmd
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Thanks as always for the feedback!
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; -Basho
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; -- 
&gt; Joseph Blomstedt 
&gt; Senior Software Engineer
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; http://www.basho.com/


\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

