---
title: "Re: Populate and Set_Siblings"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-11-07T07:04:12-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg09229"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg09227"
author_name: "Jeremiah Peschka"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-11-07T07:04:12-08:00
---


CorrugatedIron[1][2] is a .NET driver for Riak. It supports the vast majority 
of Riak 1.2 features (search is a bit rough around the edges).


[1]: http://CorrugatedIron.org
[2]: http://github.com/DistributedNonsense/CorrugatedIron
---
Jeremiah Peschka
Founder, Brent Ozar Unlimited

On Nov 7, 2012, at 6:49 AM, "Kevin Burton"  wrote:

&gt; Since I will be importing data from an existing SQL Server this population 
&gt; needs to involve some sort of .NET driver. I would rather not take the time 
&gt; to learn python and how it interfaces with SQL Server if possible. Any 
&gt; suggestions?
&gt; 
&gt; From: riak-users [mailto:riak-users-boun...@lists.basho.com] On Behalf Of 
&gt; Michael Clemmons
&gt; Sent: Wednesday, November 07, 2012 8:25 AM
&gt; To: riak-users
&gt; Subject: Populate and Set\\_Siblings
&gt; 
&gt; Hey all,
&gt; I've noticed afew questions on the list serve over the past year. Allot of 
&gt; people have asked questions about how/why they should use populate. Mostly 
&gt; its because its exposed in the docs without much explanation. Along with 
&gt; set\\_siblings and some other number of methods in riak\\_objects.py, many 
&gt; methods which are likely to be only used internally to the class and not 
&gt; marked with a preceding \\_ which is part of pep 8 here 
&gt; http://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/#method-names-and-instance-variables
&gt; Sphinx(http://sphinx-doc.org/ext/autodoc.html) should handle this properly 
&gt; and hide the methods from users who will not need to look that deeply.
&gt; Its a quick sed command for me to fix and fork this, is there a specific 
&gt; reason why these are not made "private" and if not what other methods do you 
&gt; all think should be included in this off the RiakObject itself?
&gt; Michael
&gt; 
