---
title: "Re: Key Expiry in Riak"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-03-02T12:52:00-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg02519"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg02518"
author_name: "Sean Cribbs"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-03-02T12:52:00-08:00
---


Anthony,

Yes, you can set it at any point but your Riak nodes might need to be restarted.

Sean Cribbs 
Developer Advocate
Basho Technologies, Inc.
http://basho.com/

On Mar 2, 2011, at 3:50 PM, Anthony Molinaro wrote:

&gt; Hi,
&gt; 
&gt; Is it possible to add an expiry\\_secs after the fact? In that if I didn't
&gt; set one originally for a bitcask backend can I add one now, or will I have
&gt; to dump data if I do?
&gt; 
&gt; Since my understanding is that this value is used when bitcasks are
&gt; compacted in order to remove old fields, I have a feeling you can set it
&gt; at any point, but I want to make sure.
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; 
&gt; -Anthony
&gt; 
&gt; On Wed, Mar 02, 2011 at 09:13:27AM -0500, Sean Cribbs wrote:
&gt;&gt; Abhishek,
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Mostly answered here: 
&gt;&gt; https://help.basho.com/entries/466512-how-can-i-automatically-expire-a-key-from-riak
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; If you use multi\\_backend with several bitcask setups you can have both 
&gt;&gt; expiring data and normal persistent data. Here's an example of what you 
&gt;&gt; might put in app.config (inside the riak\\_kv section):
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; {storage\\_backend, riak\\_kv\\_multi\\_backend},
&gt;&gt; {multi\\_backend\\_default, &lt;&lt;"bitcask"&gt;&gt;},
&gt;&gt; {multi\\_backend, [
&gt;&gt; {&lt;&lt;"bitcask"&gt;&gt;, riak\\_kv\\_bitcask\\_backend, []},
&gt;&gt; {&lt;&lt;"sessions&gt;&gt;, riak\\_kv\\_bitcask\\_backend, [{expiry\\_secs, 7200}, 
&gt;&gt; {data\\_root, "data/sessions"}]}
&gt;&gt; ]},
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; The key pieces there is expiry\\_secs = 7200 (2 hours), and the separate root 
&gt;&gt; for the data files.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt;&gt; Developer Advocate
&gt;&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt;&gt; http://basho.com/
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; P.S. If you haven't seen the Knowledge Base yet, check it out: 
&gt;&gt; https://help.basho.com/forums/270314-riak. You can also search the KB from 
&gt;&gt; the #riak IRC channel using "!kb ".
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On Mar 2, 2011, at 8:21 AM, Abhishek Kona wrote:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Hi
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Is it possible to have a expiry (ttl) on RIAK keys per bucket (or per key).
&gt;&gt;&gt; Or is there any other way that I am missing.
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; This would be greatly useful for maintaining Session data in RIAK, as 
&gt;&gt;&gt; expired session data can be auto cleared.
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; -Abhishek Kona
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; -- 
&gt; ------------------------------------------------------------------------
&gt; Anthony Molinaro 
