---
title: "Re: Hello, Bitcask!"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-05-05T09:41:57-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00260"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg00259"
author_name: "Alvaro Videla"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-05-05T09:41:57-07:00
---


Hi,

As many of you know from twitter/irc I've put together a bare bones PHP client 
for Bitcask:

http://github.com/videlalvaro/phpcask

If some guys/gals here think that this project might be helpful for someone 
please let me know, so I can spend some more time on it.

To name an example where I can improve it is that now is just a PHP Class 
wrapper around the bitcask API, with no error handling at all. Thinks like that 
can be improved quite easily.

Regards and congratz to Basho for the good work.

Alvaro

On May 5, 2010, at 11:46 PM, Justin Sheehy wrote:

&gt; Riak Users,
&gt; 
&gt; You might have noticed that we released a new local key/value store
&gt; recently: http://blog.basho.com/2010/04/27/hello,-bitcask/
&gt; 
&gt; As of just now, it is available as a storage engine ("backend") in the
&gt; tip of the Riak repository.
&gt; 
&gt; You can use it like any other backend just by setting the
&gt; storage\\_backend application variable in the riak\\_kv application to
&gt; riak\\_kv\\_bitcask\\_backend (in your "app.config") on a fresh node so that
&gt; it will use Bitcask for storage.
&gt; 
&gt; There is a new application in app.config, "bitcask", for more detailed
&gt; configuration of bitcask behavior. Some of the variables you can set
&gt; in there are:
&gt; 
&gt; data\\_root: string (required) - the directory for bitcask to use for
&gt; storage and metadata
&gt; 
&gt; merge\\_strategy: {hours, N} - perform a data file merge every N hours
&gt; 
&gt; sync\\_strategy: how to manage syncing of data files being written. choices:
&gt; none (default) - let the O/S decide
&gt; o\\_sync - use the O\\_SYNC flag to sync each write
&gt; {seconds, N} - call bitcask:sync/1 every N seconds
&gt; 
&gt; A couple of things aren't done yet, including more proactive
&gt; generation of hintfiles, faster startup time, smarter merge
&gt; strategies, more extensive testing on more platforms, documentation on
&gt; usage, and more. We are not yet recommending this as a primary
&gt; production backend, but we expect to very soon. Your feedback is
&gt; welcomed.
&gt; 
&gt; -Justin
&gt; 
&gt; p.s. -- it's not slow.
&gt; 
