---
title: "Re: Geospatial advice?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-05-01T09:44:16-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07359"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg07354"
author_name: "Alexander Sicular"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-05-01T09:44:16-07:00
---


My advice is to not use Riak. Check mongo or Postgres. 


@siculars on twitter
http://siculars.posterous.com

Sent from my iRotaryPhone

On May 1, 2012, at 9:18, Mark Rose  wrote:

&gt; Hello everyone!
&gt; 
&gt; I'm going to be implementing Riak as a storage engine for geographic data. 
&gt; Research has lead me to using geohashing as a useful way to filter out 
&gt; results outside of a region of interest. However, I've run into some 
&gt; stumbling blocks and I'm looking for advice on the best way to proceed.
&gt; 
&gt; Querying efficiently by geohash involves querying several regions around a 
&gt; point. From what I can tell, Riak offers no way to query a secondary index 
&gt; with multiple ranges. Having to query a several ranges, merge them in the 
&gt; application layer, then pass them off to mapreduce seems rather silly (and 
&gt; could mean passing GBs of data). Alternatively, I could start straight with 
&gt; mapreduce, but key filtering seems to work only with the primary key, which 
&gt; would force me into using the geohashed location as the primary key (which 
&gt; would lead to collisions if two things existed at the same point). I'd also 
&gt; like to avoid using the primary key as the geohash as if the item moves I'd 
&gt; have to change all the references to it. Lastly, I could do a less efficient 
&gt; mapreduce over a less precise geohash, but this doesn't solve the issue of 
&gt; the equator (anything near the equator would require mapreducing the entire 
&gt; dataset).
&gt; 
&gt; Is there any way to query multiple ranges with a secondary index and pass 
&gt; that off to mapreduce? Or should I just stick with the less efficient 
&gt; mapreduce, and when near the equator, run two queries and later merge them? 
&gt; Or am I going about this the wrong way?
&gt; 
&gt; In any case, the final stage of my queries will involve mapreduce as I'll 
&gt; need to further filter the items found in a region.
&gt; 
&gt; Thank you,
&gt; Mark
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

