---
title: "Re: Riak and host names"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-01-07T15:16:45-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg09752"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg09751"
author_name: "Richard Shaw"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-01-07T15:16:45-08:00
---


Hi Matt,

Just to add to Charlie's suggestion, you could take a look at EC2 elastic IP 
addresses which would allow you to permanently map a public and private address 
to an EC2 instance, assignDNS hostnames and not have them change on reboot[1]

[1] http://aws.amazon.com/articles/1346

Regards

Richard

On 7 Jan 2013, at 23:03, Charlie Voiselle  wrote:

&gt; Matt:
&gt; 
&gt; You would need to use (or implement your own) DNS service that you could 
&gt; programmatically access--Route 53 has an API that you could use to create DNS 
&gt; entries that point to the internal addresses of your nodes. In very 
&gt; carefully re-reading the thread Deepak mentions, one problem that will occur 
&gt; is that each node needs to be able to resolve the other nodes by name also. 
&gt; The only way for this to occur reasonably, would be to register the internal 
&gt; addresses with a single point that they share. Some examples of free 
&gt; services that you might use for this are DynDns[1], DNSDynamic[2], or 
&gt; DNS-O-Matic[3]. I have also seen some projects floating around the web that 
&gt; might enable you to create a self-hosted dynamic DNS like opendyn[4] and 
&gt; GnuDIP[5]; however, I have had no occasion to use something like this in my 
&gt; own environment. Some additional discussion about creating your own Dynamic 
&gt; DNS server is also at 
&gt; http://unix.stackexchange.com/questions/29049/how-to-create-a-custom-dynamic-dns-solution
&gt; 
&gt; Hope this helps!
&gt; Charlie
&gt; 
&gt; [1] http://www.dyn.com
&gt; [2] http://www.dnsdynamic.org
&gt; [3] http://www.dnsomatic.com
&gt; [4] http://code.google.com/p/opendyn/
&gt; [5] http://gnudip2.sourceforge.net/
&gt; 
&gt; On Jan 7, 2013, at 5:00 PM, Matt Black  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Thanks for this Charlie.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; I'm running a production Riak cluster on AWS which runs constantly, and I've 
&gt;&gt; been wondering how I might be able to easliy stop and start AWS nodes for a 
&gt;&gt; testing and benchmarking cluster (to save on cost).
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; By using the 'riaknode1.priv' hostname method you describe, would I be able 
&gt;&gt; to stop and then restart a whole cluster of nodes at once? (As described by 
&gt;&gt; Deepak, AWS assigns new IPs when a VM starts).
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Thanks
&gt;&gt; Matt
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On 8 January 2013 01:31, Charlie Voiselle  wrote:
&gt;&gt; Deepak:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; When you name a node in app.config with -name it has to have a '.' in it, 
&gt;&gt; like r...@hostname.net As you have surmised, you can get around that if you 
&gt;&gt; use the -sname argument instead. 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; They have to be done consistently. In your example, had you used the -sname 
&gt;&gt; argument, `riak@riaknode1` would work. Making a host entry `riaknode1.priv` 
&gt;&gt; that points to the local address would work with the -name argument.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; The inportant thing about -name and -sname is that they can't mix within a 
&gt;&gt; cluster.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Cluster replace is designed to replace a node with a new one and transfer 
&gt;&gt; all the partitions. You can cheat and use it to rename a node though. 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; The process to do this would look like the following:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; • Stop the node to rename with `riak stop`
&gt;&gt; • Mark it 'down' from another node in the cluster using `riak-admin 
&gt;&gt; down «old nodename».
&gt;&gt; • Rename the node in vm.args.
&gt;&gt; • Delete the ring directory.
&gt;&gt; • Start the node with `riak start`. 
&gt;&gt; • It will come up as a single instance which you can verify with 
&gt;&gt; `riak-admin member-status`.
&gt;&gt; • Join the node to the cluster with `riak-admin cluster join «cluster 
&gt;&gt; nodename» `
&gt;&gt; • Set it to replace the old instance of itself with `riak-admin cluster 
&gt;&gt; replace «old nodename» «new nodename»
&gt;&gt; • Plan the changes with `riak-admin cluster plan`
&gt;&gt; • Commit the changes with `riak-admin cluster commit`
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; As you can see, this is a very large effort, so best to use hostnames that 
&gt;&gt; aren't moving around. Apologies for you getting this twice, Deepak. I 
&gt;&gt; failed to reply to the list as well.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Hope this makes sense...
&gt;&gt; Charlie
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On Jan 1, 2013, at 2:43 PM, Deepak Balasubramanyam  
&gt;&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; I took the AWS EC2 riak image for a spin today. I have a query regarding 
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak nodes and how they behave when the machine reboots.
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; When an EC2 instance reboots, the internal ip / internal DNS / external DNS 
&gt;&gt;&gt; change. This renders the app.config and -name argument on vm.args 
&gt;&gt;&gt; incorrect. I was exploring solutions to deal with this problem. 
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; 1. Preventive measures
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Someone on this thread dated May 2011 suggested using host file entries 
&gt;&gt;&gt; that point to the local internal IP address. That does not seem to work. 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Riak fails with the following error when I add a new entry to /etc/hosts 
&gt;&gt;&gt; and configure vm.args with -name riak@riaknode1
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Hostname riaknode1 is illegal
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; I confirmed that riaknode1 pings correctly before starting riak. I guess 
&gt;&gt;&gt; erlang tries to match the hostname of the system resulting in this failure 
&gt;&gt;&gt; ? Can anyone throw some light on this ?
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; 2. Use -sname
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Is starting the erlang VM with the sname flag an option if it will help 
&gt;&gt;&gt; prevent the 'illegal hostname' error ? 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Disclaimer: My knowledge of erlang is close to zilch, so sorry if that 
&gt;&gt;&gt; option sounded like something you could dismiss easily :)
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; 3. Use cluster replace
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; a. I understand that the IPs in app.config and vm.args can be replaced with 
&gt;&gt;&gt; the correct IP on a restart and using a subsequent 'cluster replace' 
&gt;&gt;&gt; command will do. Will executing the 'cluster plan' and 'cluster commit' 
&gt;&gt;&gt; commands now produce network chatter ? 
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; b . What happens if 2 nodes go down and one was joined with the other. They 
&gt;&gt;&gt; both have 2 different IP addresses on restart. How will 'cluster replace' 
&gt;&gt;&gt; work now ?
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Do let me know your thoughts.
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Thanks
&gt;&gt;&gt; -Deepak

&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt; 
