---
title: "Some questions before moving from CouchDB to Riak on production"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-06-03T09:46:15-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00497"
author_name: "Germain Maurice"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-06-03T09:46:15-07:00
---

Hi

We've started to use CouchDB earlier this year, and we go from
disappointments to failures, only to switch back to disappointment
again. We've been testing riak for a few weeks now, and we are pretty
happy with the results. But before definitely switching to riak, we have
some questions.

We need to store a lot of documents. Each document is a web page, with a
lot of metadata (author, title, date, content extract from the article,
from the comments …). We currently have over 12 million documents, stored
in CouchDB, and the DB is currently a little bit over 1TB in size. We're
adding roughly 65k new documents a day (average document size: 220kB). Soon,
we will also add 150k smaller documents a day (average size: 1kB), so
the size of the DB will keep growing fast.

In our tests, we are using the following configurations:
- 1 node is a physical server (2GB RAM, XeonDualCore @1.60GHz, Ubuntu
9.10 Amd64, riak 0.10-1, innostore 10\\_1)
- 2 nodes are virtual server (each node is 1.5GB RAM, XeonDualCore
@2GHz, Ubuntu 9.10 Amd64, riak 0.10-1, innostore 10\\_1) inside a Xen host

We managed to crash the virtual servers on Xen, while having 15 workers
and doing about 125 writes/second (average size of the documents:
190kB). This size was measured while writing data to the disk using
Innostore.

What kind of configuration should we consider for this setup : what are
the potential bottlenecks we may encounter, and/or are there specific
tuning options in the Erlang VM that would help better fit our needs ?

To start a ring in production to handle this volume, how many nodes
should we consider for good performance ?

Finally, we are curious on how people are using riak: what do they
store, how many documents, which frequency, do they spent a lot of time
doing administration work on the nodes, what should be done after a node
crash and how should we recover in a production environment ?

Any feedback on existing production environments would be welcome.

Thanks!

--
Germain Maurice
Administrateur Système/Réseau
Tel : +33.(0)1.42.43.54.33

http://www.linkfluence.net
