---
title: "Re: innostore questions"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-02-07T06:11:08-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg02214"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg02213"
author_name: "David Smith"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-02-07T06:11:08-08:00
---


On Mon, Feb 7, 2011 at 7:00 AM, Jackson L  wrote:
&gt; 1) From the basho download page, http://downloads.basho.com/innostore/,
&gt; innostore is currently at release 1.0.2.  Since innostore is an embedded
&gt; version of innodb, is there any correlation between the innostore release
&gt; and the real innodb release?  Are the features available with innodb 1.0.2
&gt; available in innostore 1.0.2 or is there no relationship?

No relation, unfortunately.

&gt; 2)  Related to the prior question is if there is no relationship, does
&gt; anyone know of any detail documentation besides the basho wiki that shows
&gt; all the supported features and/or parameters that each version of innostore
&gt; supports?  For example, does innostore support the innodb parameters:

You can see the full set of config options on line 385 in this file:
https://github.com/basho/innostore/blob/master/src/innostore.erl

Not all the options are necessarily enabled/responsive to external
settings -- embedded inno is a bit of a finicky beast about that
stuff.

&gt;
&gt; a.            file\\_per\\_table

The setting is available, but I believe embedded inno requires this
mode -- I've not tried changing it.

&gt; b.            autoextend\\_increment
&gt;
&gt; c.             autoinc\\_lock\\_mode

I've not tried either of these settings, but within the scope of Riak,
they would not really be that helpful (since everything stored is just
key/value).

&gt;
&gt; d.            data\\_file\\_path

I've not tried this one -- typically we use data\\_home\\_dir and
log\\_group\\_home\\_dir to control where data/logs go.

&gt; 3) Is there a lot of write activity in the ring\\_state\\_dir?  I am assuming
&gt; their isn't since the state of the node shouldn't change that frequently but
&gt; wanted a confirmation.

No, there should not be a lot of write activity in ring\\_state\\_dir.

D.

