---
title: "Re: Riak scenarios"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-08-04T11:14:19-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04229"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04222"
author_name: "Jonathan Langevin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-08-04T11:14:19-07:00
---


We're building an application right now, that will provide analytics/reports
to customers, using Riak as the storage solution.
I actually spoke with Basho prior to committing to Riak, explained that we
needed to be able to scale well with this solution, that it was geared to
providing analytics & reports, etc, and they (Basho) supported this effort
using Riak.

Our application processes incoming data, transforms it into Riak-friendly
objects, performs all necessary calculations (and stores the values) during
transformation, and then stores into Riak. Maybe this process is why Basho
didn't say "don't use Riak".

I can totally see that attempting to store straight SQL data into Riak and
then running ad-hoc queries would be quite inappropriate, but otherwise I'm
uncertain how Riak wouldn't suffice as a solution. As we're pre-emptively
storing what we would normally query "ad-hoc", that's not an issue for our
product.


In case someone is unsure of how I'm defining data analytics:
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data\\_analytics

We're essentially building a "business intelligence" product for
universities.


\\*Jonathan Langevin
Systems Administrator
Loom Inc.
Wilmington, NC: (910) 241-0433 - jlange...@loomlearning.com -
www.loomlearning.com - Skype: intel352\\*



On Thu, Aug 4, 2011 at 11:35 AM, Jeremiah Peschka &lt;
jeremiah.pesc...@gmail.com&gt; wrote:

&gt; When I asked phark for such a document, he said:
&gt;
&gt; So, here is what we generally caution \\*against\\* using Riak for:
&gt;
&gt; 1) It's not a graph database
&gt; 2) Time Series apps (it's doable but not optimal)
&gt; 2) Stuff that is analytics-heavy or requires a lot of adhoc queries.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; It'd be nice to see examples of how other people are using Riak to build
&gt; out their environment.
&gt;
&gt; ---
&gt; Jeremiah Peschka
&gt; Founder, Brent Ozar PLF, LLC
&gt;
&gt; On Aug 4, 2011, at 7:33 AM, Jonathan Langevin wrote:
&gt;
&gt; It would be great to see Riak configuration & use scenarios, available
&gt; online (not just buried in the list somewhere).
&gt;
&gt; One such scenario that I'd be interested in seeing, is a setup where you
&gt; have a Riak cluster with a specific node that is used for all reads/writes
&gt; of an application.
&gt; The idea is to ensure that the data is always online (via cluster), but
&gt; also ensure that you always have the latest version of your data (specific
&gt; single node read/write).
&gt; If this primary node goes down, then just switch the application to a new
&gt; primary node. That could occur via application logic or other solution that
&gt; exists between application and riak cluster.
&gt;
&gt; To represent such a scenario as I've requested, someone would post their
&gt; suggested/recommended Riak config, client read config, client write config,
&gt; and any other relevant information, especially pros/cons and if they have
&gt; in fact used this configuration before (with[out] success).
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; It would be good to have a scenario wishlist, where someone lists what they
&gt; would like to see a usable configuration, which others can respond to with
&gt; their configuration / use case.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; If Basho/Riak were interested in providing such a function to the
&gt; community, maybe to make this available sooner than later, it could be
&gt; implemented via the Wiki, with some basic guidelines?
&gt;
&gt; This idea wouldn't need to exist exactly as I've presented it, just
&gt; something that achieves a similar goal would be quite useful.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Jonathan Langevin
&gt; Systems Administrator
&gt; Loom Inc.
&gt; Wilmington, NC: (910) 241-0433 - jlange...@loomlearning.com -
&gt; www.loomlearning.com - Skype: intel352
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

