---
title: "Re: upgrade from 0.10 to 0.13 while full cluster shutdown"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-11-15T09:50:47-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01544"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg01541"
author_name: "Colin Surprenant"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-11-15T09:50:47-08:00
---


My configuration is mostly untouched from the default, other than the
innostore config. Is there anything special involved in the
configuration migration?

What would be the best way for me to assert the innostore storage file
compatibility between 0.10 and 0.13 without having to dig and analyse
the changelogs between these versions?

I haven't found any comprehensive notes on the upgrade process
involved between versions. Is there anything?

Thanks for your help.
Colin

On Mon, Nov 15, 2010 at 11:54 AM, David Smith  wrote:
&gt; 0.10 -&gt; 0.13 is a big change; most of the pain is going to be related
&gt; to getting your configuration migrated. Storage into innostore should
&gt; be relatively unchanged, I believe. Assuming your config is migrated,
&gt; you should just be able to start it up with the same data files.
&gt;
&gt; It's obviously a good idea to backup your innostore files before you
&gt; do anything. :)
&gt;
&gt; D.
&gt;
&gt; On Fri, Nov 12, 2010 at 3:01 PM, Colin Surprenant
&gt;  wrote:
&gt;&gt; Hi,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; What would be the most (time) efficient way for me to upgrade my 3
&gt;&gt; nodes cluster from 0.10 to current 0.13?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; It is not a problem for me to completely shutdown the cluster for the
&gt;&gt; upgrade operation, unless it takes longer than a few hours.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; My cluster is configured with innostore and each node holds approx
&gt;&gt; 250G of data.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I do not think riak-admin backup/restore is an option since it is way
&gt;&gt; too slow. The last time I checked, it did not finish dumping a single
&gt;&gt; node after 24 hours...
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt; Colin

&gt;

