---
title: "Re: avoid records?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-04-28T02:39:04-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00190"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg00182"
author_name: "Ali Sabil"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-04-28T02:39:04-07:00
---


We actually use records and we include a version number in the record
name 'foo-bar:0' that way we can easily match on them, and update them
lazily. Concerning the usage of dicts, we are not sure if that's
actually a good idea given that their representation doesn't seem to
be stable across erlang runtime versions, please correct me if I am
wrong.

Ali

On Mon, Apr 26, 2010 at 9:39 PM, David Weldon  wrote:
&gt; Usually I'm all for records because of pattern matching and
&gt; compile-time checking. IMHO, broken upgrades are reason enough not to
&gt; use them directly for storage. I have yet to design a system where the
&gt; data structures never changed after the initial release. I hate to say
&gt; it but, for me, the answer may be to have functions which map between
&gt; records and orddicts/proplists. I guess this really isn't a
&gt; riak-specific issue, but its interesting to hear with other people
&gt; think about it.
&gt;
&gt; Dave
&gt;
&gt; On Mon, Apr 26, 2010 at 10:18 AM, Eric Cestari  wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Le 26 avr. 2010 à 15:10, Sean Cribbs a écrit :
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Yes, the primary weakness of records would be upgrading them.  You could do 
&gt;&gt;&gt; it with a map-reduce job, but it would be better in general to use a more 
&gt;&gt;&gt; fluid data structure.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; In the defense of records :
&gt;&gt; Records can be pattern matched whereas dicts and proplists can't.
&gt;&gt; Using a record with dict attributes and single attributes for pattern 
&gt;&gt; matching ("state" attribute, or "type" ...) could be interesting.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Eric
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; http://twitter.com/cstar
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
