---
title: "Re: Luwak EOL"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-12-19T16:50:37-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06002"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06001"
author_name: "francisco treacy"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-12-19T16:50:37-08:00
---


I can't say I'm thrilled to hear this. We use Luwak extensively.

&gt; While the idea of Luwak was interesting, we ultimately decided that it
&gt; wasn’t the architectural path we wanted to pursue for storing larger
&gt; values in Riak.

Does this mean there is still an intention to support storing larger
values in Riak in the future?

Thanks,
Francisco


2011/12/19 David Smith :
&gt; Hi all,
&gt; I wanted to take a moment and let the community-at-large know that we
&gt; are going to end-of-life the Luwak functionality in Riak, as part of
&gt; our 1.1 release in February. This simply means that the Luwak repo on
&gt; Github will not be actively developed/supported by Basho, or included
&gt; as a default Riak dependency. In keeping with our commitment to Open
&gt; Source, the code will still be available if someone else wants to
&gt; develop on it. You can also continue to use it with Riak if you are
&gt; willing to edit the deps and compile from source -- the Luwak README
&gt; will contain information on how to do this.
&gt; While the idea of Luwak was interesting, we ultimately decided that it
&gt; wasn’t the architectural path we wanted to pursue for storing larger
&gt; values in Riak. If Luwak is a piece of your Riak deployment, we’d love
&gt; to hear from you and incorporate your feedback into future directions.
&gt; Please don’t hesitate to reach out to myself or Mark Phillips.
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; D.
&gt; --
&gt; Dave Smith
&gt; Director, Engineering
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; diz...@basho.com
&gt;

