---
title: "Riak Adoption - What can we do better?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-04-25T15:47:00-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07326"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg07286"
author_name: "Vishal Shah"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-04-25T15:47:00-07:00
---


Improve library development for languages/platforms. Especially Node.js -
proto buffers has been in experimental mode for a while. It's a great start
though! And I understand that its harder to have dedicated developers for
this.

Key based order/range queries

Atomic counter ops

Check-and-set ops

Thanks!
V

On Wednesday, April 25, 2012, Mark Phillips wrote:

&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Mon, Apr 23, 2012 at 10:33 AM, Mark Phillips  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Update: I'm working on rolling this thread into a blog post with a
&gt;&gt; summary of all these suggestions and what we're doing to address them in
&gt;&gt; the short and long term. This will be out today with any luck.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks for this. Never have I been so excited by people pointing out our
&gt;&gt; shortcomings. :)
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt; As promised, here's the blog post:
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; http://www.themarkphillips.com/2012/04/24/riak-adoption-we-have-some-work-to-do.html
&gt;
&gt; It's a bit longwinded but I had no choice. There was a lot to cover.
&gt;
&gt; Back to work. :)
&gt;
&gt; Mark
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Mark
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Sat, Apr 21, 2012 at 2:25 PM, Les Mikesell wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; On Sat, Apr 21, 2012 at 12:55 PM, Gideon de Kok  wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; Op zaterdag 21 april 2012, om 19:50 heeft Les Mikesell het volgende
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; geschreven:
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; Is there 'something like redis' that doesn't introduce a single point
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; of failure? And a completely different set of administrative
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; concepts?
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; A different, Riak only, approach is to safe the sorted keys in a Riak
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; object:
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; - You could have a sorted list of keys in a array in a user object for
&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; instance.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; That seems to assume that a single client has all the keys at once.
&gt;&gt;&gt; What if your clients and the data sources are distributed as well?
&gt;&gt;&gt; And if that could work reliably from a set of clients, why can't the
&gt;&gt;&gt; server side do it?
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt;&gt; Les Mikesell
&gt;&gt;&gt; lesmikes...@gmail.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;

&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
