---
title: "RE: Newbie question -- how do I turn on web-based search interface	for port 8098?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-10-22T08:30:51-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg09001"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg09000"
author_name: "Felix Terkhorn"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-10-22T08:30:51-07:00
---


Hi Sean,

Great. Thanks a ton. The documentation in docs.basho.com is a bit out of 
date, but with your help, I was able to quickly fire off a query which I'd 
confirmed as working with the command line utility. Looking forward to deeper 
dives into Riak's capabilities.

Cheers,
Felix

-----Original Message-----
From: Sean Cribbs [mailto:s...@basho.com] 
Sent: Monday, October 22, 2012 11:23 AM
To: Felix Terkhorn
Cc: riak-users@lists.basho.com
Subject: Re: Newbie question -- how do I turn on web-based search interface for 
port 8098?

Hi Felix,

Riak Search uses the same interface/port as the normal Riak HTTP operations, so 
look in your app.config file for the {http, [ ... ]} line to find the host/port 
combination. There's no UI exported from that interface, but you should be 
able to use Solr-like URLs to perform queries and modify the indexes.

On Mon, Oct 22, 2012 at 11:18 AM, Felix Terkhorn  
wrote:
&gt; Hi,
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; I've searched around on the web for this but am coming up short. How 
&gt; do I turn on the web-based search interface which is documented here?
&gt; (http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/references/Riak-Search---Settings/#
&gt; Default
&gt; Ports)
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Using "netstat -a | grep 8098" I can see that there's definitely 
&gt; nothing listening on that port.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; I do have search enabled in app.config for each of my four nodes.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt;
&gt; Felix
&gt;
&gt;


--
Sean Cribbs 
Software Engineer
Basho Technologies, Inc.
http://basho.com/
