---
title: "Re: Riak 1.0 pre-release series"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-09-09T17:25:30-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04641"
author_name: "Jared Morrow"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-09-09T17:25:30-07:00
---


Riak-Users,

The next build in the pre-release series is ready for you to download.
Also, you will notice that the RELEASE-NOTES are now available as well.

Release notes: https://github.com/basho/riak/blob/1.0/RELEASE-NOTES

Builds: http://downloads.basho.com/riak/riak-1.0.0pre2/

Enjoy!

-Jared

On Wed, Sep 7, 2011 at 5:24 PM, David Smith  wrote:

&gt; Hi All,
&gt;
&gt; I'm proud to announce that we're taking the first steps towards
&gt; releasing Riak 1.0 with the creation of the 1.0 branch and initial
&gt; package builds. With 1.0, we will be doing two series of builds before
&gt; the final release.
&gt;
&gt; The first stage is "pre-release" (aka PR) builds that represent the
&gt; feature-complete Riak 1.0, with minor cleanup and tweaks still
&gt; ongoing. You WILL find some rough edges with packaging and the
&gt; features -- we're still working through these and will do pre-releases
&gt; as often as necessary to get these issues resolved. We'll also be
&gt; trying to incorporate outstanding pull requests where change is
&gt; minimal/manageable.
&gt;
&gt; The second stage is "release candidate" (aka RC) builds that represent
&gt; what we believe to be a solid product, suitable for release. Once we
&gt; hit this stage, only major, show-stopping bugs will be addressed.
&gt;
&gt; We would love to get your feedback on these builds, good or bad. We're
&gt; trying this new process to do a better job of incorporating community
&gt; feedback BEFORE the release. :) If you run into issues, please drop us
&gt; a line on the ML or in IRC -- we'll do our best to stay on top of it.
&gt; If you'd like to file bugs, we ask you do a check of bugzilla to avoid
&gt; creating duplicate issues. Also note that the docs on wiki.basho.com
&gt; may still reflect 0.14.2; we'll be addressing those over next few
&gt; weeks.
&gt;
&gt; It goes without saying that you should think twice before running a PR
&gt; or RC in production. :)
&gt;
&gt; So, without further ado:
&gt;
&gt; http://downloads.basho.com/riak/riak-1.0.0pre1/
&gt;
&gt; D.
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Dave Smith
&gt; Director, Engineering
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; diz...@basho.com
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

