---
title: "Riak over \"LAN\" vs \"WAN\""
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-11-19T00:28:25-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg09345"
author_name: "Jon Perez"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-11-19T00:28:25-08:00
---


&gt;From the documentation out there, Riak nodes within a cluster are supposed to
reside within the same datacenter or "LAN".

They are not supposed to be spread out across a WAN, even though this seems
to be possible, the distinction between "LAN" and "WAN" being more of a
gradation rather than a sharp one.

The reason given was: "Within a single Riak cluster, nodes communicate with
each other using the Erlang distribution protocol. There are a number of
reasons within Riak's design -- this just being one of them -- why spreading
a Riak cluster across a wide area is not recommended."

Why exactly are these reasons? I suspect they have to do with performance. 
If so, how exactly does performance degrade when nodes are spread out
between hosts with latencies in the tens to hundred plus milliseconds (as is
typical over WANs)?

Or does it have more to do with reliability of connections and overhead in
retrying them? I can understand that Bashio has a vested interest in
promoting Riak Enterprise for this, but it would be nice if the technical
details of why were actually laid out in detail.

&gt;From my limited experience with Riak, getting multiple nodes within a
cluster going is extremely simple, whereas going multiple clusters is a very
different story and requires a new layer of understanding. It's too bad
that there is a distinction between nodes over "WANs" and "LANs". I guess
the holy grail of dbs is still some ways off, although Riak seems to be the
closest fit right now.

--
View this message in context: 
http://riak-users.197444.n3.nabble.com/Riak-over-LAN-vs-WAN-tp4026078.html
Sent from the Riak Users mailing list archive at Nabble.com.

