---
title: "Re: ssh tunnel between nodes in a cluster?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-05-30T00:40:17-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03490"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg03489"
author_name: "Jeremy Bornstein"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-05-30T00:40:17-07:00
---


 I definitely appreciate the guidance, but in this application the
higher latency would be a perfectly acceptable aspect of the solution.

On 5/30/11 12:28 AM, Alexander Sicular wrote:
&gt; Riak is built in erlang and uses erlangs inter-process communication
&gt; conventions to do its clustered magic. Aka, it works best in low
&gt; latency, reliable networked environments. 
&gt;
&gt; If you are trying to solve a multi datacenter situation I would talk
&gt; to the basho folks about their enterprise solution that works
&gt; specifically in that environment.
&gt;
&gt; Cheers, Alexander 
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; @siculars on twitter
&gt; http://siculars.posterous.com
&gt;
&gt; Sent from my iPhone
&gt;
&gt; On May 30, 2011, at 1:59, Jeremy Bornstein  &gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Yes, in this case I do!
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On 5/29/11 10:25 PM, Matt Ranney wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt; Are you sure you want this? Riak will spread your data across all
&gt;&gt;&gt; nodes in the cluster with no consideration for the network topology.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; On Sun, May 29, 2011 at 6:40 PM, Jeremy Bornstein &gt;&gt; &gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; We have machines in different data centers and no VPN between
&gt;&gt;&gt; them. I'm
&gt;&gt;&gt; a little confused by the details of the required ports, and
&gt;&gt;&gt; would love
&gt;&gt;&gt; to see a concrete example from someone who has a setup that uses
&gt;&gt;&gt; ssh to
&gt;&gt;&gt; tunnel between nodes in a riak cluster.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com 
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
