---
title: "Re: riak newbie"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-06-21T08:31:23-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07732"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg07729"
author_name: "Clinton Shryock"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-06-21T08:31:23-07:00
---


Alternatively if you have git available you can simply clone basho/riak from 
GitHub:

&gt; $ git clone git://github.com/basho/riak.git
&gt; $ cd riak
&gt; $ make all
&gt; $ make devrel

After that you should have your 4 node dev environment up and be able to 
continue with the guide.

+Clint

On Jun 21, 2012, at 8:37 AM, Brian Roach wrote:

&gt; Hi Anand,
&gt; 
&gt; The brew install actually gives you compiled code, and no makefile. In 
&gt; addition, the startup scripts are slightly different that when installing 
&gt; from source.
&gt; 
&gt; I recently answered the same question on StackOverflow which should point you 
&gt; in the right direction:
&gt; http://stackoverflow.com/questions/9906386/running-a-three-node-riak-cluster-using-a-homebrew-installation
&gt; 
&gt; Basically, you need to manually make copies of the /usr/local/Cellar/riak 
&gt; directory and edit the files accordingly, including the startup scripts 
&gt; themselves. 
&gt; 
&gt; Please let us know if you have additional questions!
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; Brian Roach
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Jun 21, 2012, at 7:21 AM, Anand Hegde wrote:
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; I am trying to get the 4 node setup working on my os x lion machine.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; sorry If you are getting this a second time but I think my first mail got 
&gt;&gt; lost because I was a non member.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; I installed riak using 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; $ brew install riak
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; I am using the online documentation available - 
&gt;&gt; http://wiki.basho.com/Building-a-Development-Environment.html
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; I am stuck on this step - "Use rebar to start up four nodes. "
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; After installing riak, do I have to install rebar as well? After installing 
&gt;&gt; riak I directly tried the 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; $ make devrel 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; command and it gave the following error 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; make: \\*\\*\\* No rule to make target `devrel'. Stop.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
