---
title: "Re: PDF or OpenOffice Impresse presentations instead of .KEY +	Windows question"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-01-05T17:11:02-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01901"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg01900"
author_name: "Jeremiah Peschka"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-01-05T17:11:02-08:00
---


A short to medium term fix might be to go the route of some other database
vendors and create a linux VM that can be used in VMWare VPlayer. If I had
VMWare, I'd go about doing this, but my VM tools are Mac only...

Jeremiah Peschka
Microsoft SQL Server MVP
MCITP: Database Developer, DBA


On Wed, Jan 5, 2011 at 8:03 PM, OJ Reeves  wrote:

&gt; As someone who has to spend most of their time in Windows at the moment,
&gt; I'd like to just add my view.
&gt;
&gt; For the sake of development and testing, I have found that running a number
&gt; of Riak nodes in a Linux VM on my Windows desktop is as fast, if not faster,
&gt; than talking to other databases (such as SQL Server and MySQL) with native
&gt; installations. The time and effort to set this up is also comparable.
&gt;
&gt; As far as production deployments are concerned I would be happy (if not
&gt; prefer) to fire up Linux servers to run my Riak nodes instead of Windows.
&gt; Partly because of the cost involved, partly for other reasons such as
&gt; overhead.
&gt;
&gt; In short, don't let the lack of Windows support put you off. You can still
&gt; have a great time with Riak even if your main OS is Windows. I've not found
&gt; it to be a barrier at all.
&gt;
&gt; Just my $0.02 :) All the best with your experiments.
&gt;
&gt; OJ
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On 6 January 2011 10:53, Justin Sheehy  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hello, Jérôme.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; It looks like Jeremiah has already answered one of your questions, so
&gt;&gt; I'll get the other.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Wed, Jan 5, 2011 at 6:41 PM, Jérôme Verstrynge 
&gt;&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; My other question/remark is: there does not seem to be a downloadable
&gt;&gt; &gt; version of Riak for Windows. Is there a technical reason for this or is
&gt;&gt; it a
&gt;&gt; &gt; 'religious' issue?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; There's certainly no operating system religion at work here, simply
&gt;&gt; the limited resources of a small team. A few different people in the
&gt;&gt; community have been working on Windows support, which we think is a
&gt;&gt; great idea -- we just currently don't have anyone spare to make
&gt;&gt; official windows releases, QA and benchmark those releases on various
&gt;&gt; windows systems, and so on.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; -Justin
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt;
&gt; OJ Reeves
&gt; http://buffered.io/
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

