---
title: "Re: Easier to use Java Client"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-03-29T07:03:09-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg02779"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg02772"
author_name: "Jon Brisbin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-03-29T07:03:09-07:00
---



On Mar 29, 2011, at 12:28 AM, Rexxe wrote:

&gt; I started to use Riak using the spring-data project but found that their API 
&gt; was lacking and had serious issues with strict typing. It turns out that the 
&gt; Java API they've built is pretty much being built just so it works in 
&gt; Grails/Groovy. 

Actually, what I said is that the spring-data support for Riak needed to 
accommodate the Groovy use-case. It's not specifically for the Grails/Groovy 
use case, but that it is being used heavily there so its a dependency. 

We've talked about having a separate Template abstraction that uses Strings for 
keys, etc... It's an approach that Costin has pursued with the Redis support 
and seems to work fairly well. It might be that we just need a template that 
takes these things into account. I think with the addition of a few helpers, we 
could make it look like whatever someone wanted. :)

&gt; So, I started to look at the Riak Java API. I found it to be a bit 
&gt; complicated and I didn't like how it still forced the user to know about a 
&gt; lot of specifics of Riak, especially query params and other properties, and 
&gt; didn't provide a layer of abstraction on top of the actual client (so I could 
&gt; say go switch between the REST and PBC client). So, I decided to write my 
&gt; own client and semi-ORM layer. I am still working on some of the details, I 
&gt; need to write more tests, and I need to document it, but the bulk of the code 
&gt; is done. I have only implemented the REST client so far, but I plan on 
&gt; implementing PB in the future.
&gt; 
&gt; You can check it out here: https://github.com/aberman/spring-riak

I like what you've done here, having gone through the code. It's very 
well-written and would make a good alternative to what's currently available. 
It doesn't cover the full feature needs yet, but its certainly a good start.

Thanks!

Jon Brisbin

http://jbrisbin.com
Twitter: @j\\_brisbin


\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

