---
title: "Re: reg. storageon Localfile system"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-07-10T05:39:07-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07887"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg07880"
author_name: "David Smith"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-07-10T05:39:07-07:00
---


Hi Sangeetha,

If you are using one of the Linux packages for Riak, you should be
able to look in /var/lib/riak for the data files. Otherwise, consult
app.config for the data\\_root directory.

Hope that helps,

D.

On Mon, Jul 9, 2012 at 4:46 AM,  wrote:
&gt; Hi team,
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Iam very new to riak ,can anyone say on loading onto riak db
&gt; 2 node cluster …where does it puts the data on the Local file system.like we
&gt; see on autosharding of mongodb or hadoop-hdfs over shards in the cluster
&gt; mode ….as in which of riak……………………
&gt;
&gt; FYI:
&gt;
&gt; I use curl in loading the same
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; -module(time).
&gt;
&gt; -export([starttime/0]).
&gt;
&gt; -export([main/1]).
&gt;
&gt; -export([format\\_and\\_insert/1]).
&gt;
&gt; -export([endtime/0]).
&gt;
&gt; starttime() -&gt;
&gt;
&gt; starttime = {{Year,Month,Day},{Hour,Min,Sec}} = erlang:localtime().
&gt;
&gt; main([Filename]) -&gt;
&gt;
&gt; {ok, Data} = file:read\\_file(Filename),
&gt;
&gt; Lines = tl(re:split(Data, "\\r?\\n", [{return, binary},trim])),
&gt;
&gt; lists:foreach(fun(L) -&gt; LS = re:split(L, ","), format\\_and\\_insert(LS)
&gt; end, Lines).
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; format\\_and\\_insert(Line) -&gt;
&gt;
&gt; JSON =
&gt; io\\_lib:format("{\\"id\\":\\"~s\\",\\"phonenumber\\":~s,\\"callednumber\\":~s,\\"starttime\\":~s,\\"endtime\\":~s,\\"status\\":~s}",
&gt; Line),
&gt;
&gt; Command = io\\_lib:format("curl -X PUT
&gt; http://10.232.5.169:8098/riak/goog1/~s -d '~s' -H 'content-type:
&gt; application/json'", [hd(Line),JSON]),
&gt;
&gt; io:format("Inserting: ~s~n", [hd(Line)]),
&gt;
&gt; os:cmd(Command).
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Thanks & regards
&gt;
&gt; sangeetha
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; This e-mail and any files transmitted with it are for the sole use of the
&gt; intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential and privileged
&gt; information. If you are not the intended recipient(s), please reply to the
&gt; sender and destroy all copies of the original message. Any unauthorized
&gt; review, use, disclosure, dissemination, forwarding, printing or copying of
&gt; this email, and/or any action taken in reliance on the contents of this
&gt; e-mail is strictly prohibited and may be unlawful.
&gt;


-- 
Dave Smith
VP, Engineering
Basho Technologies, Inc.
diz...@basho.com

