---
title: "Re: Search precommit hook bug?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-09-20T07:53:39-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04795"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04729"
author_name: "Ryan Zezeski"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-09-20T07:53:39-07:00
---


Elias,

It's hard to say from just this one stacktrace but it seems that the
vnode/leveldb backend might be failing under load causing the R value to go
unmet. The Search hook has to perform a read of a special object it stores
in the backend and that's what is failing here. However, the root cause
seems to be vnodes failing. I say this because of the presence of the
`{r\\_val\\_unsatisfied,2,1}` msg. Could you check the error and crash log
files and see if you can't find other traces that might shed more light on
this?

-Ryan

On Thu, Sep 15, 2011 at 2:09 AM, Elias Levy wrote:

&gt; While loading some data into a test cluster I using riak 1.0.0pre2 I came
&gt; across some sort of search related bug.
&gt;
&gt; The cluster is configured with 3 nodes, N is 3, W is 1, WD is 0, and I am
&gt; connecting to protocol buffers. The program to load data can be configured
&gt; to use one or more connections using non-blocking IO connected across the
&gt; three nodes. I've successfully loaded several GB of data in a bucket with a
&gt; bitcask backend using 12 concurrent connections.
&gt;
&gt; Then I decided to switching to a leveldb backend. When I did so, about 10
&gt; seconds into loading data I get the following error:
&gt;
&gt; 2011-09-15 05:43:19.161 [error]
&gt; &lt;0.17255.0&gt;@riak\\_kv\\_put\\_fsm:decode\\_precommit:607 Problem invoking pre-commit
&gt; hook riak\\_search\\_kv\\_hook:precommit -&gt;
&gt; error:{case\\_clause,{error,{r\\_val\\_unsatisfied,2,1}}}
&gt;
&gt; [{riak\\_indexed\\_doc,put,3},{riak\\_search\\_kv\\_hook,precommit,1},{riak\\_kv\\_put\\_fsm,invoke\\_hook,4},{riak\\_kv\\_put\\_fsm,precommit,2},{gen\\_fsm,handle\\_msg,7},{proc\\_lib,init\\_p\\_do\\_apply,3}]
&gt;
&gt; Now, the interesting part is that if I run the program again, using the
&gt; same input data, the loading succeeded without any errors.
&gt;
&gt; This occurs with some of my other input files, although sometimes I need to
&gt; try loading them a few times before it succeeds. Maybe there are some
&gt; records that trigger the issue, but only if a key is newly inserted?
&gt;
&gt; Elias Levy
&gt;

