---
title: "Re: Any interest in Seattle office hours or meetup?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-08-08T10:40:13-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08223"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg08220"
author_name: "Thomas Santero"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-08-08T10:40:13-07:00
---


Hi Parnell,

One of our DevOps Engineers, Seth Thomas, is in Austin and is the man you
want to speak to. You can reach him directly at stho...@basho.com

Tom


On Wed, Aug 8, 2012 at 1:23 PM, Parnell Springmeyer wrote:

&gt; Sorry for the double email, hit the send key combo accidentally.
&gt;
&gt; If there are, I can get the Capital Factory guys to host a meet up/get
&gt; together (I'm a tenant in their gorgeous office space).
&gt;
&gt; On Aug 7, 2012, at 2:22 PM, Joseph Blomstedt wrote:
&gt;
&gt; &gt; As many of you already know, Basho is largely a distributed company
&gt; &gt; with the majority of many teams working remotely from their homes,
&gt; &gt; coffee shops, and co-working spaces across the country. There's no
&gt; &gt; reason you need to live near one of our offices in order to interact
&gt; &gt; with Basho engineers and developer advocates -- we're everywhere.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; With that said, I'd like to set something up in Seattle to engage with
&gt; &gt; local Riak users and enthusiasts.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Some thoughts:
&gt; &gt; -- Weekly office hours at a coffee shop or co-working location.
&gt; &gt; -- Monthly or bi-monthly Riak meetup.
&gt; &gt; -- Monthly or bi-monthly Riak drinkup.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Is there anyone in the Seattle area who finds any of these ideas
&gt; &gt; interesting? Have a preference? Have other suggestions?
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; In short, I'm soliciting any and all feedback. Is anyone in the
&gt; &gt; Seattle area interested in having weekly/monthly access to come in and
&gt; &gt; pester me (senior engineer at Basho) about anything and everything?
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; -Joe
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; --
&gt; &gt; Joseph Blomstedt 
&gt; &gt; Senior Software Engineer
&gt; &gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; &gt; http://www.basho.com/
&gt; &gt;

