---
title: "Re: Riak Recap as a Blog (?)"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-06-06T07:33:06-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03575"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg03567"
author_name: "Keith Bennett"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-06-06T07:33:06-07:00
---


Mark -

I think that's a great idea. I'd go even further, and suggest that the 
valuable information discussed on the mailing list be managed in a searchable 
form, as is the case with Google or Yahoo Groups. (Is it searchable now? I 
couldn't see how to search the entire archive for a keyword.)

This would be helpful for we users of riak, and even possibly for riak 
developers, since finding more information might prevent people from asking a 
question that has already been asked in the past, saving them time. In this 
case, you might want to copy the Recap to a message on the mailing list, so 
it's searchable there as well.

Thanks,
Keith


On Jun 6, 2011, at 2:51 AM, Mark Phillips wrote:

&gt; Hey All -
&gt; 
&gt; Quick question: how would you feel if we turned the Riak Recap into a blog?
&gt; 
&gt; I've spoken with various people in various channels about how to best
&gt; deliver the Recap, and while it's clear that it's a valuable tool for
&gt; the community, I'm not sure the Mailing List is still the best vehicle
&gt; through which to publish it.
&gt; 
&gt; Publishing it as a blog (perhaps at "recap.basho.com") makes a lot of
&gt; sense as it would enable people to consume it without having to sift
&gt; through the rest of the mailing list traffic (and I know there are
&gt; more than a few of you who are on this ML only for the Recaps). More
&gt; importantly, I think it would bring more new readers to the Recap (and
&gt; more users to Riak).
&gt; 
&gt; So, in the interest of convenience and expanding the size of the Riak
&gt; community, I think making it a blog might make sense. It would still
&gt; be written, published, and tweeted thrice weekly, just delivered to
&gt; you in your Reader, for example, instead of on the ML.
&gt; 
&gt; As you all are the primary consumers of the Recap, I thought I would
&gt; gather some opinions before I did anything drastic. Anyone have
&gt; thoughts on this?
&gt; 
&gt; +/-1s, rants, and all other expressions of opinion are encouraged.
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; 
&gt; Mark
&gt; 
&gt; Community Manager
&gt; Basho Technologies
&gt; wiki.basho.com
&gt; twitter.com/pharkmillups
&gt; 
