---
title: "Re: Building a native Riak executable"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-10-04T03:31:35-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05022"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg05017"
author_name: "OJ Reeves"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-10-04T03:31:35-07:00
---


Hi Olivier,

What I do in this scenario is

 - Build a VM which is running the same operating system as your target
 server. Let's say you're deploying to a 64-bit Arch Linux machine, that's
 the exact flavour of OS that you set up on the VM.
 - Install the required version of Erlang.
 - Install all the build tools, git, etc.
 - Download Riak from Github and checkout the version that you're looking
 to deploy.

At this point you're ready to create a release. Riak comes with a
feature-rich makefile that should cover what you're looking for. To generate
a self-contained release using rebar, change to the Riak directory and type:

make && make rel

This should pull all the required dependencies down, compile Riak and
generate a release for you in a folder called rel/riak. When finished, this
folder can be archived (using tar/zip/etc) and copied over to your server.
This archive is a self-contained instance of Riak and all the required bits
and pieces to run on the target machine. Extract on your server and you can
run it directly from there. Bear in mind that you'll probably have to modify
settings in etc/app.config to whatever you may need for your environment.

Pardon the high-level/crass response :) I'm no expert, but this has worked
for me just fine. I'm sure the more seasoned Riak lads will be able to chime
in and correct me if I've said something stupid or if they have a better
process.

Hope that helps!
OJ

On 4 October 2011 18:29, Olivier Rossel  wrote:

&gt; Hi all.
&gt;
&gt; I need to deploy Riak on a Linux server with no Erlang VM.
&gt; Is there a procedure to build a native Riak executable on my own Ubuntu
&gt; so I can deploy it on this server?
&gt; Which Erlang .deb packages are required on my Ubuntu to build this native
&gt; Riak?
&gt;
&gt; Any help is very welcome.
&gt;
&gt; PS: I am \\*absolute\\* newbie in Erlang :)
&gt;


-- 

OJ Reeves
http://buffered.io/
