---
title: "Riak Recap for 4/29 - 5/2"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-05-03T09:17:44-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00228"
author_name: "Mark Phillips"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-05-03T09:17:44-07:00
---


Hey All -

Hope the weekend was good. For today's recap: some Riak + node.js
info, a pointer to a presentation, a hefty discount code, and a Riak
review from Linuxfr.org.

Enjoy -

Mark


------
Mark Phillips
Community Manager
Basho Technologies
wiki.basho.com
twitter.com/pharkmillups

------

Riak Recap for 4/29 - 5/2

1) For anyone out there using (or thinking about using) Riak with
node.js, @frank06 let it slip on Twitter that he added "removeAll" to
his riak-js client.

Check out the changes here -- &gt; http://github.com/frank06/riak-js

\\* On a more general note, if anyone is interested in Riak + node.js
and has any questions, @frank06, @siculars, and @botanicus are all
doing some very cool stuff in that realm. Though I can't make any
promises, they might be up for answering questions/trading ideas on
the topic.
.
2) Dan Reverri (@reverri) posted a presentation that he gave at a
NoSQL Meetup this past week

Check it out here -- &gt; http://prezi.com/hwjggj3t01ue/riak/

3) For anyone in the greater Oklahoma City Area: Sean Cribbs is
giving a Riak Training at the sure-to-be awesome Red Dirt Ruby
Conference taking place May 6-7th.

Use the code "riak\\_training" and get yourself a 20% discount on registration.

Conference info here: -- &gt; http://reddirtrubyconf.com/

4) Another Riak sighting in La France - Mathew Bruno posted a great
piece about Riak in linuxfr.org with some details on the 0.10 release
along with more general information on Riak. Je le recommende
fortement!

Check it out here -- &gt; http://linuxfr.org/2010/05/03/26801.html

