---
title: "Re: Introducing Riakkit, An(other) riak python (tiny) framework"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-12-15T23:14:43-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05972"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg05970"
author_name: "Mark Phillips"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-12-15T23:14:43-08:00
---


Thanks, Shuhao. This looks quite useful. And I'm happy to report that
you've landed yourself a spot on the Riak wiki [1]. (Quite the honor,
btw.) Also, great work on the README and docs. Beautiful stuff.

Best -

Mark

[1] 
http://wiki.basho.com/Community-Developed-Libraries-and-Projects.html#Client-Libraries-and-Frameworks

On Thu, Dec 15, 2011 at 6:17 PM, Shuhao Wu  wrote:
&gt; Hi guys,
&gt;
&gt; I just created an(other) python framework on top of python-riak at
&gt; https://github.com/ultimatebuster/riakkit. It's basically an object
&gt; mapper that maps objects to be stored in riak.
&gt;
&gt; Here's a demo:
&gt;
&gt;    &gt;&gt;&gt; class User(Document):
&gt;    ...     bucket\\_name = "users"
&gt;    ...     client = some\\_client
&gt;    ...
&gt;    ...     SEARCHABLE = True  # Marking this to be searchable.
&gt;    ...
&gt;    ...     name = types.StringProperty(required=True)
&gt;    ...     posts = types.LinkedDocuments()
&gt;    &gt;&gt;&gt; user = User(name="mrrow")
&gt;    &gt;&gt;&gt; some\\_post = BlogPost(title="Hello", content="World")
&gt;    &gt;&gt;&gt; user.posts = []
&gt;    &gt;&gt;&gt; user.posts.append(some\\_post)
&gt;    &gt;&gt;&gt; user.save()
&gt;    &gt;&gt;&gt; print user.posts[0].title
&gt;    Hello
&gt;    &gt;&gt;&gt; same\\_user = User.get\\_with\\_key(user.key)
&gt;    &gt;&gt;&gt; print same\\_user.posts[0].title
&gt;    Hello
&gt;
&gt; Of course you can see all of this in the README/tutorial.
&gt;
&gt; The other one (the first one) is riakalchemy
&gt; (https://github.com/Linux2Go/riakalchemy). I discovered this about 2
&gt; days into the development of riakkit.. (don't get me wrong, it took me
&gt; 3 days to write this) they're pretty similar, although there are some
&gt; differences. Some stuff are inspired by riakalchemy after I saw it,
&gt; such as the cls.load function.
&gt;
&gt; Hopefully you'll be able to check out my new project, and the link
&gt; again is at: https://github.com/ultimatebuster/riakkit
&gt;
&gt; Cheers,
&gt;
&gt; Shuhao
&gt;

