---
title: "Re: Throughput of read operations"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-08-12T11:24:11-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04366"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04363"
author_name: "Jeremiah Peschka"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-08-12T11:24:11-07:00
---


If the numbers you reported are the average, that's interesting. Were you using 
an EBS volume or an ephemeral volume?

You can definitely be seeing a noisy neighbor effect, although typically you'll 
see inconsistent results.
---
Jeremiah Peschka - Founder, Brent Ozar PLF, LLC
Microsoft SQL Server MVP

On Aug 12, 2011, at 8:37 AM, Maria Neise wrote:

&gt; I ran it on one day (on a sunday) but each workload 4 or 5 times and
&gt; my hard drive had 150GB.
&gt; So it could be Amazons fault? :)
&gt; 
&gt; Cheers,
&gt; Maria
&gt; 
&gt; On 12 August 2011 16:50, Jeremiah Peschka  wrote:
&gt;&gt; One question that pops into my mind is are these numbers averages over 3 or 
&gt;&gt; 5 runs or is this a single run?
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; In my experience with EC2, I've run into I/O inconsistencies when I'm using 
&gt;&gt; anything less than 1TB drives and a large instance. There's a lot of 
&gt;&gt; potential for a noisy neighbor to steal I/O or CPU, or memory on the host OS 
&gt;&gt; which will put pressure on all other guests.
&gt;&gt; ---
&gt;&gt; Jeremiah Peschka - Founder, Brent Ozar PLF, LLC
&gt;&gt; Microsoft SQL Server MVP
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On Aug 12, 2011, at 2:23 AM, Maria Neise wrote:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Hey,
&gt;&gt;&gt; I am doing some benchmarks with Riak and set up a cluster with 6
&gt;&gt;&gt; server using Amazon EC2. On each server I have GB of data. I am using
&gt;&gt;&gt; Bitcask as backend and the Java-API for my client. I have some
&gt;&gt;&gt; workloads with different proportion of operations, for example insert,
&gt;&gt;&gt; read and update. I started a workload with 95% read and 5% update and
&gt;&gt;&gt; achieved a throughput of 1207 operations/second. When I tried out
&gt;&gt;&gt; another workload with 100% read I only got 228 ops/sec. But I thought
&gt;&gt;&gt; Riak would be faster with reads than with updates. I would appreciate
&gt;&gt;&gt; if you could give me a hint, why Riak achieves a higher throughput
&gt;&gt;&gt; when doing updates and inserts mixed with reads.
&gt;&gt;&gt; Thank you in advance.
&gt;&gt;&gt; Cheers,
&gt;&gt;&gt; Maria
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 


\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

