---
title: "Re: Do not expose Riak to the Internet"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-10-20T13:13:40-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05217"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg05213"
author_name: "David Smith"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-10-20T13:13:40-07:00
---


On Thu, Oct 20, 2011 at 11:27 AM, Aphyr  wrote:

&gt; I \\*do\\* know that multitenant mongo is vulnerable to trivial
&gt; denial-of-service vulnerabilities, thanks to a global write lock and
&gt; gleefully executing javascript everywhere. While we're talking DoS, it's
&gt;

I think we can all agree it's a bad idea to put \\_any\\_ system on the
unfiltered 'Net unless you've take a number of precautions to ensure your
system isn't variously DoS'd, hacked or otherwise subverted.

Riak is designed to be a low-latency, fault-tolerant datastore. It's
intended to a foundational service on which you can build other systems. As
such, we (strongly) recommend you take steps to protect it and insulate it
from untrusted portions of your network. It goes without saying that
"untrusted" ~= 'Net at large. :)

worth mentioning that if you can convince a sufficiently large riak
&gt; cluster to list-keys, it \\*will\\* go down.\\*
&gt;

As noted (copiously) in the past, doing a list-keys in a Dynamo style system
is very, very expensive. It's a part of the tradeoffs one is making for
improved latency and availability. That said, we have been working to
improve the impact that such an expensive operation has on the overall
system and agree whole-heartedly it shouldn't swamp the whole cluster if
possible. 1.0 is a lot better in this regard, but there's still work to be
done.

The answer is not to ban mapreduce (or distributed code execution of any
&gt; kind). The answer is to avoid running code from people in dark alleys on
&gt; a system you care about.\\*\\*\\* :)
&gt;

Ultimately, this is a big game of tradeoffs. We're doing our best to make
Riak an unparalleled distributed datastore that you can build reliable
services on. We welcome any and all feedback on features we could add that
would tangibly improve it: http://features.basho.com/home

D.
-- 
Dave Smith
Director, Engineering
Basho Technologies, Inc.
diz...@basho.com
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

