---
title: "Re: RiakSearch solr multiply file Submit ?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-10-31T09:00:47-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01429"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg01427"
author_name: "Prometheus WillSurvive"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-10-31T09:00:47-07:00
---


Hi Rusty,

Shell is /bin/bash CentOS

&gt; bin/search-cmd solr testwiki "/root/DATA/output/\\*.xml" Looks like okay..

Best 
Prometheus


On Oct 31, 2010, at 5:40 PM, Rusty Klophaus wrote:

&gt; Hi Prometheus,
&gt; 
&gt; Hmm... that's interesting... looks like your shell might be trying to expand 
&gt; the wildcard rather than letting passing it through to Riak Search.
&gt; 
&gt; Try putting it in quotes, ie:
&gt; 
&gt; bin/search-cmd solr testwiki "/root/DATA/output/\\*.xml"
&gt; 
&gt; Or if that doesn't work, escaping the asterisk, ie:
&gt; 
&gt; bin/search-cmd solr testwiki /root/DATA/output/\\\\*.xml
&gt; 
&gt; Also, out of curiosity, what does the system say when you type "echo $SHELL"
&gt; 
&gt; Best,
&gt; Rusty
&gt; 
&gt; On Sun, Oct 31, 2010 at 11:24 AM, Prometheus WillSurvive 
&gt;  wrote:
&gt; Hi Rusty,
&gt; 
&gt; This is what I got when use \\* in file name:
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; [r...@sft riaksearch]# bin/search-cmd solr testwiki /root/DATA/output/\\*.xml
&gt; 
&gt; Usage:
&gt; 
&gt; search-cmd set\\_schema [INDEX] SCHEMAFILE : Set schema for an index.
&gt; search-cmd show\\_schema [INDEX] : Display the schema for an 
&gt; index.
&gt; search-cmd shell [INDEX] : Start the interactive Search 
&gt; shell.
&gt; search-cmd search [INDEX] QUERY : Perform a search.
&gt; search-cmd search\\_doc [INDEX] QUERY : Perform a document search.
&gt; search-cmd explain [INDEX] QUERY : Display an execution plan.
&gt; search-cmd index [INDEX] PATH : Index files in a path.
&gt; search-cmd delete [INDEX] PATH : De-index files in a path.
&gt; search-cmd solr [INDEX] PATH : Run the Solr file.
&gt; search-cmd install BUCKET : Install kv/search integration 
&gt; hook
&gt; search-cmd uninstall BUCKET : Uninstall kv/search 
&gt; integration hook
&gt; search-cmd test PATH : Run a test package
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; If I give only path like bin/search-cmd solr testwiki /root/DATA/output/ 
&gt; than its ok.
&gt; 
&gt; Regards
&gt; 
&gt; Prometheus
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Oct 31, 2010, at 5:22 PM, Rusty Klophaus wrote:
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Hi Prometheus,
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Can you tell me the exact error that it gives?
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Wildcard matching should work as follows (taken from the library 
&gt;&gt; documentation):
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; The wildcard string looks like an ordinary filename, except that certain 
&gt;&gt; "wildcard characters" are interpreted in a special way. The following 
&gt;&gt; characters are special:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; ?
&gt;&gt; Matches one character.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; \\*
&gt;&gt; Matches any number of characters up to the end of the filename, the next 
&gt;&gt; dot, or the next slash.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; {Item,...}
&gt;&gt; Alternation. Matches one of the alternatives.
&gt;&gt; Other characters represent themselves. Only filenames that have exactly the 
&gt;&gt; same character in the same position will match. (Matching is case-sensitive; 
&gt;&gt; i.e. "a" will not match "A").
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Best,
&gt;&gt; Rusty
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On Sun, Oct 31, 2010 at 11:18 AM, Prometheus WillSurvive 
&gt;&gt;  wrote:
&gt;&gt; Hi Rusty ,
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Thanks
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; I already tried. :) but it give error and trying to teach me sytnax as in 
&gt;&gt; help :) 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; It is accepting : bin/search-cmd solr testwiki /root/DATA/output/ 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; but gives error for : 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; bin/search-cmd solr testwiki /root/DATA/output/\\*.xml 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; As you aware We are trying to do some benchmark test on riaksearch. We have 
&gt;&gt; customers have billions of doc. Working with current lucene / Solr is a 
&gt;&gt; operational nightmare ( yes it is).
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; So we are looking for a replacement for those customers. This is why we are 
&gt;&gt; one of the early tester of the RiakSearch. 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Best Regards
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Prometheus
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On Oct 31, 2010, at 5:12 PM, Rusty Klophaus wrote:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Hi Prometheus,
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Yes, you can either put the files into a directory and then provide a 
&gt;&gt;&gt; command line pointing to the directory, ie:
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; bin/search-cmd solr index path/to/directory
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Or you can specify a wildcard using '\\*':
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; bin/search-cmd solr index path/to/directory/\\*.xml
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Best,
&gt;&gt;&gt; Rusty
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; On Sat, Oct 30, 2010 at 4:10 PM, Prometheus WillSurvive 
&gt;&gt;&gt;  wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt; Hi ,
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Is there anyway to submit more than one file in :
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; "search-cmd solr INDEX abc.xml ? "
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; it is not accepting \\*.xml or 1.xml 2.xml in the same command line..
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; thanks
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Prometheus
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 

