---
title: "Re: Getting all the Keys"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-01-22T10:40:52-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg02061"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg02060"
author_name: "Alexander Staubo"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-01-22T10:40:52-08:00
---


On Sat, Jan 22, 2011 at 19:34, Alexander Staubo  wrote:
&gt; On Sat, Jan 22, 2011 at 18:23, Thomas Burdick
&gt;  wrote:
&gt;&gt; So really whats the solution to just having a list of like 50k keys that can
&gt;&gt; quickly be appended to without taking seconds to then retrieve later on. Or
&gt;&gt; is this just not a valid use case for riak at all? That would suck cause
&gt;&gt; again, I really like the notion of an AP oriented database!
&gt;
&gt; I have been struggling with the same issue. You may want to look at
&gt; Cassandra, which handles sequential key range traversal very well.
&gt; Riak also has a problem with buckets sharing the same data storage
&gt; (buckets are essentially just a way to namespace keys), so if you have
&gt; two buckets and fill up one of them, then enumerating the keys of the
&gt; empty bucket will take a long time even though it

I accidentally "Send". Again: I have been struggling with the same
issue. You may want to look at Cassandra, which handles sequential key
range traversal very well. Riak also has a problem with buckets
sharing the same data storage (buckets are essentially just a way to
namespace keys), so if you have two buckets and fill up one of them,
then enumerating the keys of the empty bucket will take a long time
even though it's empty. Cassandra does not have a problem with this,
since Cassandra's keyspaces are separate data structures. I like Riak,
but it only works well with single-key/linked traversal, not this kind
of bucket-wide processing.

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

