---
title: "Re: Bucket and Post commit hook"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-08-16T06:28:21-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00894"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg00891"
author_name: "Dan Reverri"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-08-16T06:28:21-07:00
---


Hi Senthilkumar,

You can set bucket properties in two ways.

1. Set the default bucket properties in app.config which will be used by
buckets which have not been explicitly defined.

2. Set the bucket properties through the REST API.
https://wiki.basho.com/display/RIAK/REST+API#RESTAPI-Setbucketproperties

You can set bucket properties through the REST API without putting documents
in the bucket.


You'll have to determine which method to use based on your application's
requirements.

Thanks,
Dan

Daniel Reverri
Developer Advocate
Basho Technologies, Inc.
d...@basho.com


On Sun, Aug 15, 2010 at 10:29 PM, Senthilkumar Peelikkampatti &lt;
senthilkumar.peelikkampa...@gmail.com&gt; wrote:

&gt; May be I try to rephrase my question Since bucket are not specifically
&gt; declared and as and when it will be created base on put(B,K,V ...), so B can
&gt; be anything and it become available. I need to created post commit for some
&gt; buckets but not for all and those are not know beforehand. Since it is not
&gt; declared and its virtual and so how to create post commits for this
&gt; scenario? one way is app.config and I am trying to see what is the best way
&gt; to do.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Mon, Aug 16, 2010 at 12:22 AM, Senthilkumar Peelikkampatti &lt;
&gt; senthilkumar.peelikkampa...@gmail.com&gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Alexander,
&gt;&gt; Thanks and I am aware of that. But when bucket get dynamically created
&gt;&gt; and you don't know when because as and when you add document it will be
&gt;&gt; brought into life, but at what point you would create properties for those
&gt;&gt; buckets especially post\\_commit\\_hook? for me I need it from first doc. I
&gt;&gt; found one way to do is using app.config but if Riak informs when first
&gt;&gt; document bucket is brought into life I can also set post\\_commit hook for
&gt;&gt; that particular bucket. whatever set in app.config is global and not
&gt;&gt; specific to specific buckets but this is the story. I need post commit to
&gt;&gt; be live for from first document to do something else.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt; Senthil
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Sun, Aug 15, 2010 at 9:24 PM, Senthilkumar Peelikkampatti &lt;
&gt;&gt; senthilkumar.peelikkampa...@gmail.com&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; I am having a situation where buckets gets created dynamically and I want
&gt;&gt;&gt; to attach post commit hook to it. Since it is part of bucket properties, how
&gt;&gt;&gt; to deal with when I set bucket properties? Since bucket is kind of virtual
&gt;&gt;&gt; and got deleted when no documents in it and created when first document is
&gt;&gt;&gt; put. Is there a way to find out when first time bucket is created? If I
&gt;&gt;&gt; know, I can attach once post hook properties. Or is that part of app.config
&gt;&gt;&gt; and can be set as part of config properties?
&gt;&gt;&gt; Please provide your thoughts.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt;&gt; Regards,
&gt;&gt;&gt; Senthilkumar,
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; Regards,
&gt;&gt; Senthilkumar Peelikkampatti,
&gt;&gt; http://pmsenthilkumar.blogspot.com/
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Regards,
&gt; Senthilkumar Peelikkampatti,
&gt; http://pmsenthilkumar.blogspot.com/
&gt;
&gt;

