---
title: "Re: Some questions before moving from CouchDB to Riak on production"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-06-03T09:51:01-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00498"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg00497"
author_name: "Dan Reverri"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-06-03T09:51:01-07:00
---


The free webinar today might help answer some of your questions:
http://blog.basho.com/2010/05/26/free-webinar:-load-testing-riak---june-3...@-2pm-eastern/

On Thu, Jun 3, 2010 at 9:46 AM, Germain Maurice &lt;
germain.maur...@linkfluence.net&gt; wrote:

&gt; Hi
&gt;
&gt; We've started to use CouchDB earlier this year, and we go from
&gt; disappointments to failures, only to switch back to disappointment
&gt; again. We've been testing riak for a few weeks now, and we are pretty
&gt; happy with the results. But before definitely switching to riak, we have
&gt; some questions.
&gt;
&gt; We need to store a lot of documents. Each document is a web page, with a
&gt; lot of metadata (author, title, date, content extract from the article,
&gt; from the comments …). We currently have over 12 million documents, stored
&gt; in CouchDB, and the DB is currently a little bit over 1TB in size. We're
&gt; adding roughly 65k new documents a day (average document size: 220kB).
&gt; Soon,
&gt; we will also add 150k smaller documents a day (average size: 1kB), so
&gt; the size of the DB will keep growing fast.
&gt;
&gt; In our tests, we are using the following configurations:
&gt; - 1 node is a physical server (2GB RAM, XeonDualCore @1.60GHz, Ubuntu
&gt; 9.10 Amd64, riak 0.10-1, innostore 10\\_1)
&gt; - 2 nodes are virtual server (each node is 1.5GB RAM, XeonDualCore
&gt; @2GHz, Ubuntu 9.10 Amd64, riak 0.10-1, innostore 10\\_1) inside a Xen host
&gt;
&gt; We managed to crash the virtual servers on Xen, while having 15 workers
&gt; and doing about 125 writes/second (average size of the documents:
&gt; 190kB). This size was measured while writing data to the disk using
&gt; Innostore.
&gt;
&gt; What kind of configuration should we consider for this setup : what are
&gt; the potential bottlenecks we may encounter, and/or are there specific
&gt; tuning options in the Erlang VM that would help better fit our needs ?
&gt;
&gt; To start a ring in production to handle this volume, how many nodes
&gt; should we consider for good performance ?
&gt;
&gt; Finally, we are curious on how people are using riak: what do they
&gt; store, how many documents, which frequency, do they spent a lot of time
&gt; doing administration work on the nodes, what should be done after a node
&gt; crash and how should we recover in a production environment ?
&gt;
&gt; Any feedback on existing production environments would be welcome.
&gt;
&gt; Thanks!
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Germain Maurice
&gt; Administrateur Système/Réseau
&gt; Tel : +33.(0)1.42.43.54.33
&gt;
&gt; http://www.linkfluence.net
&gt;
&gt;

