---
title: "Re: Scaling up or out"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-12-05T17:41:26-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg09444"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg09442"
author_name: "Ken Perkins"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-12-05T17:41:26-08:00
---


Yes, we're thrashing on all of the boxes, due to disk access when looking
through merge\\_index. It's not noisy neighbors, given how consistent the
thrashing is. We had a box with a corrupted index (we had to remove
merge\\_index and rebuild) and that machine instantly went to 0% thrashing.
So we have a pretty good indication of the source.

The cost for 10 8GB VMs is roughly equivalent to 5 16GB ones.

Thanks for your input Michael!

Ken


On Wed, Dec 5, 2012 at 4:47 PM, Michael Johnson  wrote:

&gt; There are a lot of things that go into this, but I would tend to suggest
&gt; in a hosted VM senario, upping the ram is likely the right solution.
&gt;
&gt; You mention thrashing, but what is that thrashing coming from? I assume
&gt; all the boxes are thrashing and not just one or two of them? Is it due to
&gt; swapping or is it just the raw disk access? Maybe you logging
&gt; too aggressively?
&gt;
&gt; Perhaps your are suffering from a bad neighbor effect. If this is the
&gt; case, increasing the amount of ram will likely put you on a physical host
&gt; with few customers and thus you would be less likely to have a bad neighbor.
&gt;
&gt; Cost-wise in the VM world, you might be better off adding a few nodes
&gt; rather than increasing the ram in your existing vm's.
&gt;
&gt; But then we are talking VMs and thus it should be fairly painless to
&gt; experiment. I would try adding ram first and if that doesn't work, add a
&gt; few nodes. Someone else my have a different opinion, but that is my two
&gt; cents.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Wed, Dec 5, 2012 at 4:33 PM, Ken Perkins  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hello all,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; We're seeing enough thrashing and low-memory on our production ring that
&gt;&gt; we've decided to upgrade our hardware. The real question is should we scale
&gt;&gt; up or out.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Currently our ring is 512 partitions. We know that it's a sub-optimal
&gt;&gt; size but we can't easily solve that now. We're currently running a
&gt;&gt; search-heavy app on 5 8GB VMs. I'm debating between moving the VMs up to
&gt;&gt; 16GB, or adding a few more 8GB VMs.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Some of the talk in #riak has pushed me towards adding more machines
&gt;&gt; (thus lowering the per node number of partitions) but I wanted to do a
&gt;&gt; quick sanity check here with folks that it's better than scaling up my
&gt;&gt; current machines.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks!
&gt;&gt; Ken Perkins
&gt;&gt; clipboard.com
&gt;
