---
title: "Re: Get properties of an object"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-01-06T09:27:05-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06156"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06151"
author_name: "Ian Plosker"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-01-06T09:27:05-08:00
---


Sam, 

It is possible to do a HTTP HEAD on an object. This will return all of the 
response headers that would have been sent with a GET response, including the 
"Content-Length". 

-- 
Ian Plosker 
Developer Advocate
Basho Technologies, Inc.


On Friday, January 6, 2012 at 8:13 AM, Sean Cribbs wrote:

&gt; Sam,
&gt; 
&gt; The location of replicas, for operational and simplicity reasons, is opaque 
&gt; to clients. This may change in the future, but at best it might be 
&gt; informational only, e.g. "talk to this node when using this key". The object 
&gt; size (without metadata) is given in the Content-Length header, naturally. 
&gt; However, you cannot determine the size without fetching the object.
&gt; 
&gt; On Fri, Jan 6, 2012 at 7:01 AM, Sam Rudge  (mailto:samaru...@gmail.com)&gt; wrote:
&gt; &gt; Is it possible to get the properties of an object? 
&gt; &gt; Specifically what I'm interested in is the nodes of the cluster the object 
&gt; &gt; is stored on and the objects size. Is this possible ether with the HTTP API 
&gt; &gt; or command line console?
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; -- 
&gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt; Software Engineer
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; http://basho.com/
&gt; 
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; 
