---
title: "Re: Maximum key length?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-04-17T19:36:17-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00071"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg00067"
author_name: "Kevin Smith"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-04-17T19:36:17-07:00
---


Good catch, Dan. I've been running with the dets backend on my laptop for a 
while now since an SSD forgives a lot.

--Kevin
On Apr 17, 2010, at 8:03 PM, Dan Reverri wrote:

&gt; For innostore I believe there is a maximum key size of 255 bytes.
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Sat, Apr 17, 2010 at 2:09 PM, Kevin Smith  wrote:
&gt; Via the Erlang client, 'cause that's what I had handy, I did a put/get 
&gt; combination on an object with a key 5000 chars long. Worked with no issues. 
&gt; You might run into URL length issues, depending on the client libs used, 
&gt; and/or the HTTP interface might have issues with URLs that long but I think 
&gt; the underpinnings should work with long keys just fine. Obviously, you're 
&gt; creating additional overhead with large keys -- replicas and such -- but it 
&gt; should Just Work otherwise.
&gt; 
&gt; --Kevin
&gt; On Apr 17, 2010, at 4:51 PM, Alexander Sicular wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; &gt; Hi,
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; What is or is there a maximum key length in Riak? Either natively or in the 
&gt; &gt; HTTP interface?
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; My use case is keeping inheritance in it's own key so for example, I have 
&gt; &gt; two keys, "A" and "B" and I want to keep a third key "A,B". You see that 
&gt; &gt; the key length is a function of member key size times number of members. 
&gt; &gt; Knowing length would give me an aproximation of depth.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Thank you,
&gt; &gt; Alexander
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; @siculars on twitter
&gt; &gt; http://siculars.posterous.com
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Sent from my iPhone
&gt; &gt;
&gt; 
&gt; 
 
