---
title: "RE: riak failed to start up"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-08-07T20:13:10-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08206"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg08199"
author_name: "Sangeetha.PattabiRaman2"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-08-07T20:13:10-07:00
---


Hi Mark,
OS - Linux 2.6.32-71.el6.x86\\_64 #1 SMPx86\\_64 x86\\_64 x86\\_64 GNU/Linux(centos 64 
bit)

 RIAK\\_VERSION="riak (1.2.0rc1 2012-07-13) RedHat x86\\_64" its there at 
/usr/sbin/riak but I am using riak -1.1.4 ...quite confused ..correct me on 
what went wrong ..


Thanks
Sangeetha

-----Original Message-----
From: Mark Phillips [mailto:m...@basho.com]
Sent: Wednesday, August 08, 2012 4:34 AM
To: Pattabi Raman, Sangeetha (Cognizant)
Cc: riak-users@lists.basho.com
Subject: Re: riak failed to start up

Hi Sangeetha,

It looks familiar but it's hard to say. Can you share the Riak version? And 
what OS you're running?

Mark

On Tue, Aug 7, 2012 at 4:15 AM,  wrote:
&gt; Hi ,
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Can any one help me on the start up error ..thx in advance
&gt;
&gt; [root@CTSINGMRGTO riak]# cat console.log
&gt;
&gt; 2012-08-07 09:13:54.260 [error] &lt;0.164.0&gt; CRASH REPORT Process
&gt; riak\\_core\\_capability with 0 neighbours exited with reason: no function
&gt; clause matching orddict:fetch('riak@127.0.0.1', []) line 72 in
&gt; gen\\_server:terminate/6 line 747
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; [root@CTSINGMRGTO riak]# riak start
&gt;
&gt; Attempting to restart script through sudo -u riak
&gt;
&gt; /etc/profile: line 31: id: command not found
&gt;
&gt; /usr/sbin/riak: line 6: uname: command not found
&gt;
&gt; /usr/sbin/riak: line 6: [: too many arguments
&gt;
&gt; /usr/sbin/riak: line 30: whoami: command not found
&gt;
&gt; sudo doesn't appear to be installed and your EUID isn't riak
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; on running as service
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; [root@CTSINGMRGTO riak]# service riak start
&gt;
&gt; Starting Riak: Riak failed to start within 15 seconds,
&gt;
&gt; see the output of 'riak console' for more information.
&gt;
&gt; If you want to wait longer, set the environment variable
&gt;
&gt; WAIT\\_FOR\\_ERLANG to the number of seconds to wait.
&gt;
&gt; [FAILED]
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Thanks & regards
&gt;
&gt; sangeetha
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; This e-mail and any files transmitted with it are for the sole use of
&gt; the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential and privileged
&gt; information. If you are not the intended recipient(s), please reply to
&gt; the sender and destroy all copies of the original message. Any
&gt; unauthorized review, use, disclosure, dissemination, forwarding,
&gt; printing or copying of this email, and/or any action taken in reliance
&gt; on the contents of this e-mail is strictly prohibited and may be unlawful.
&gt;

This e-mail and any files transmitted with it are for the sole use of the 
intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential and privileged information. 
If you are not the intended recipient(s), please reply to the sender and 
destroy all copies of the original message. Any unauthorized review, use, 
disclosure, dissemination, forwarding, printing or copying of this email, 
and/or any action taken in reliance on the contents of this e-mail is strictly 
prohibited and may be unlawful.

