---
title: "Re: Java Client Riak Builders..."
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-05-29T12:07:21-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07566"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg07565"
author_name: "Guido Medina"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-05-29T12:07:21-07:00
---


Also, the coming riak client version removed the embedded json package from 
it and put an old implementation from the main maven repo, I think that what 
was meant to do was to put this version: 
https://github.com/douglascrockford/JSON-java which has lot of performance 
improvements but no maven repo, the old:


 
org.json
json
20090211


uses lot of StringBuffer instead of StringBuilders and StringWritters 
introduced later on.


I'm wondering about the benchmark of one vs the other.

Regards,

Guido.

-----Original Message----- 
From: Brian Roach

Sent: Tuesday, May 29, 2012 7:05 PM
To: Guido Medina
Cc: riak-users@lists.basho.com
Subject: Re: Java Client Riak Builders...

Guido -

Thanks, looking forward to it.

Also as an FYI, on Friday I fixed the bug that was causing the requirement 
of the @JsonIgnore for Riak annotated fields without getters.


- Brian Roach

On May 29, 2012, at 11:52 AM, Guido Medina wrote:

I will request a "pull request", I fixed it, I enabled @RiakIndex for 
collection fields AND methods (String, Integer or Collection of any of 
those), on our coding is working, but still I need to test it more before 
making it final.


I will share the details tomorrow, I already created a fork from your 
master branch.


Now you can have something like:

@RiakIndex
@JsonIgnore
Collection getNumbers()

Also this works as index and with no getter (as of 1.0.6-SNAPSHOT) will 
only be that, an index:


@RiakIndex
Collection numbers;
That will act as index and be ignored as property which is the intention 
of the index, to be a dynamic calculated value(s) and not as property 
which requires the caller to call a post-construct.


And of course, all subclasses of a collection apply.

Thanks for the answer,

Guido.

-----Original Message----- From: Brian Roach
Sent: Tuesday, May 29, 2012 6:09 PM
To: Guido Medina
Cc: riak-users@lists.basho.com
Subject: Re: Java Client Riak Builders...

Guido -

The real fix is to enhance the client to support a Collection, I'll add an 
issue for this in github.


What you would need to do right now is write your own Converter (which 
would really just be a modification of our JSONConverter if you're using 
JSON) that does this for you.


If you look at the source for JSONConverter you'll see where the indexes 
are processed. As it is, the index processing is handled by the 
RiakIndexConverter class which is where the limitation of requiring the 
annotated field to be a String is coming from (it's actually buried lower 
than that in the underlying annotation processing, but that's the starting 
point for the problem). The actual RiakIndexes class that encapsulates the 
data and exists in the IRiakObject doesn't have this problem.


The catch is that you'll need to do all the reflection ugliness yourself, 
as that's the part that's broken (the annotation processing).


Basically, in JSONConverter.fromDomain() you would need to replace
RiakIndexes indexes = riakIndexConverter.getIndexes(domainObject);
with your own annotation processing. The same would need to be done in 
JSONConverter.toDomain() at

riakIndexConverter.populateIndexes(…)

Obviously this is not ideal and I'm considering it a bug; I'll put this 
toward to top of the list of things I'm working on right now.


Thanks,
Brian Roach


On May 28, 2012, at 8:03 AM, Guido Medina wrote:


Hi,

I'm looking for a work around @RiakIndex annotation to support multiple 
values per index name, since the annotation is limited to one single 
value per annotated property (no collection support), I would like to 
know if there is a way of using the DomainBucketBuilder, mutation & 
conflict resolver and at the same time has access to a method signature 
like addIndex(String or int)...addIndex(String or int)...build() same as 
you can do with RiakObjectBuilder which lacks support for conflict 
resolution and mutation style.


Regards,

Guido.

