---
title: "Re: Riak Adoption - What can we do better?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-04-20T11:24:29-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07265"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg07264"
author_name: "Zabrane Mickael"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-04-20T11:24:29-07:00
---


+1 for Paul's suggestions.
Especially about the "delete".

Regards,
Zabrane

On Apr 20, 2012, at 8:20 PM, Paul Gross wrote:

&gt; Riak is a breeze to host and maintain, but more difficult to develop against 
&gt; than other NoSQL databases (e.g. MongoDB and Redis). I think it would help 
&gt; adoption to close the developer gap. This includes things like:
&gt; 
&gt; 1. Add other data types like lists and sets. With lists, features like 
&gt; blocking pop would be great. MongoDB also has capped collections which keep a 
&gt; fixed number of documents. 
&gt; 
&gt; 2. Improve secondary indexes. Add indexes to existing documents without 
&gt; writing them all one by one. Allow querying by multiple indexes. Maybe even 
&gt; allow secondary index lookups to return the documents, rather than requiring 
&gt; separate GETs for each key.
&gt; 
&gt; 3. Add an easy way to delete a bucket.
&gt; 
&gt; 4. Add the concept of ordering (without having to fall back to map/reduce). 
&gt; It's difficult to do paging without ordering, and most webapps require it. In 
&gt; general, paging in RIak is hard, since there's no concept of a range of 
&gt; results from a secondary index.
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; Paul
&gt; www.pgrs.net
&gt; 
&gt; On 4/19/12 12:31 PM, Mark Phillips wrote:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; At this point Riak has been deployed thousands of times. This is excellent, 
&gt;&gt; but as you can imagine we here at Basho feel this is just the tip of the 
&gt;&gt; iceberg. We want everyone to be running Riak. The software obviously needs 
&gt;&gt; to solve enough problems for people to want to deploy it. However, we need 
&gt;&gt; to get the software into developers' hands before this happens. So the 
&gt;&gt; question is:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; What can we be doing better?
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; I'm not talking so much about features in Riak itself. I'm more interested 
&gt;&gt; in the other resources, tools, docs, processes, etc., that you think 
&gt;&gt; we need to put in place or refine to take the Riak community from 1000s of 
&gt;&gt; users to 100,000s of users. By virtue of being on this list, you've all 
&gt;&gt; spent some time using or investigating Riak. As such, you're opinions and 
&gt;&gt; experiences would be very valuable.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Any comments, ideas, or thoughts you had would be great. On or off-list will 
&gt;&gt; work. 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Thanks for your time. Long live the vnode!
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Mark 
&gt;&gt; twitter.com/pharkmillups
&gt;&gt; 

