---
title: "Re: Bucket properties \"reset\" to the default"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-05-19T10:38:30-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07485"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg07484"
author_name: "Sean Cribbs"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-05-19T10:38:30-07:00
---


Steve,

Depending on the platform you installed Riak on, the ring data might live
in '/var/lib/riak/ring' whereas your Bitcask K/V data will live in
'/var/lib/riak/bitcask' by default. On non-Linux systems, those directories
will be different.

On Sat, May 19, 2012 at 1:32 PM, Steve Warren  wrote:

&gt; I see, so I must have cleared the properties out somewhere along the way
&gt; (although I'm not sure what ring files are, or how I would clear them).
&gt; Thank you for the feedback, I will keep an eye on this to make sure I
&gt; understand it completely!
&gt;
&gt; Cheers
&gt; Steve
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Sat, May 19, 2012 at 10:12 AM, Sean Cribbs  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Steve,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Any bucket properties you set via the client interfaces are stored in the
&gt;&gt; ring structure and should persist independent of any data in the cluster.
&gt;&gt; Be careful that when you are clearing session data that you are not also
&gt;&gt; clearing the ring files.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Sat, May 19, 2012 at 10:07 AM, Steve Warren wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Hi,
&gt;&gt;&gt; I have configured Riak to store sessions in a separate bitcask backend
&gt;&gt;&gt; which has an expiration set. What I observe though is that when all
&gt;&gt;&gt; sessions are expired (overnight), the properties I set on the bucket revert
&gt;&gt;&gt; to the default bucket properties. Is there a way to make these bucket
&gt;&gt;&gt; properties permanent without making them the default for the entire cluster?
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Regards
&gt;&gt;&gt;

&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt;&gt; Software Engineer
&gt;&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt;&gt; http://basho.com/
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;


-- 
Sean Cribbs 
Software Engineer
Basho Technologies, Inc.
http://basho.com/
