---
title: "Re: Using (parts of) Bitcask backend as a cache store"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-11-29T03:12:42-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05779"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg05777"
author_name: "Jeroen van Dijk"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-11-29T03:12:42-08:00
---


Kresten,

Thank you very much for the quick response and the confirmation of this use
case of Bitcask. I'll soon experiment with this setup.

Cheers,
Jeroen

On Tue, Nov 29, 2011 at 11:28 AM, Kresten Krab Thorup wrote:

&gt; Jeroen,
&gt;
&gt; You can run multiple bitcask backends using the multi\\_backend, and
&gt; configure them differently (one with a timeout and one without). That's
&gt; what we do when we need this. The only issue is that you need to watch the
&gt; number of file descriptors, since even one bitcask is pretty fd-hungry :-)
&gt;
&gt; Kresten
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Mobile: + 45 2343 4626 | Skype: krestenkrabthorup | Twitter: @drkrab
&gt; Trifork A/S | Margrethepladsen 4 | DK- 8000 Aarhus C | Phone : +45
&gt; 8732 8787 | www.trifork.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Nov 29, 2011, at 10:37 AM, Jeroen van Dijk wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Hi all,
&gt;
&gt; I'm currently investigating of how to structure my data in Riak. I'm
&gt; thinking of having buckets that have the purpose of storing the raw data
&gt; and having buckets that store certain views on this data to minimize
&gt; lookups and mapreduce operations at runtime. So the latter would in effect
&gt; be a cache store of these views.
&gt;
&gt; I saw http://wiki.basho.com/Bitcask.html#Automatic-Expiration and I would
&gt; conclude that I could use bitcask storage to achieve this. I'm currently
&gt; just wondering whether the expiry\\_secs setting is a global one. Is it
&gt; possible to set this expiry per bucket? Otherwise I would have to give up
&gt; the use of Bitcask for other scenarios than caching I assume.
&gt;
&gt; Cheers,
&gt; Jeroen
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

