---
title: "Re: Riak search performance FUD"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-12-01T04:11:20-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05833"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg05812"
author_name: "Jeroen van Dijk"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-12-01T04:11:20-08:00
---


Hi Rusty,

On Wed, Nov 30, 2011 at 5:49 PM, Rusty Klophaus  wrote:

&gt; Hi Jeroen,
&gt;
&gt; Your understanding is correct, the search query is parsed into a tree,
&gt; where each leaf of the tree corresponds to a term. Each leaf sends back all
&gt; matching terms, and results are intersected (or unioned) where the branches
&gt; come together. So yes, if you were to run a search on a term with a large
&gt; number of results, the system reads the entire list of keys (not objects)
&gt; for that result.
&gt;
&gt; You may want to take another look at inline fields. They allow you to
&gt; limit the results at the leaf level, and can greatly improve performance
&gt; for common terms.
&gt;
&gt; The example I generally use to illustrate inline fields is to imagine
&gt; searching for all males living in a specific zip code or postal code. In a
&gt; normal search, a query on zip code would return ~100k results, and a query
&gt; on "male" would return roughly half of the world's population. However, you
&gt; can mark gender as an inline field, and then structure your query as two
&gt; parts: a primary query on the zip code, and a filter on the gender. The
&gt; filter is applied directly after the data is fetched from disk, before it
&gt; is streamed through the rest of the system, so it is a very fast way to
&gt; limit your results.
&gt;
&gt;
I have to test this out. I currently don't see filters that would apply for
this case. I could maybe simplify the problem by ignoring these common
terms for parts that they are common and regard them as stopwords there. So
to make the example more concrete I would allow to search for the term in
titles but not in the description where it is common. I'm guessing this
will be a custom solution where one needs to manipulate the query before
sending it to Riak Search.


&gt; That said, there are currently known issues around sorting and pagination
&gt; in Riak Search, the upshot is that if you apply sorting and pagination at
&gt; the same time, it can give incorrect or unpredictable results; this might
&gt; be something to consider while planning your application. (
&gt; https://issues.basho.com/show\\_bug.cgi?id=867)
&gt;

Thanks for pointing this out. I'll keep an eye on this issue.

&gt; I would recommend against using search\\_fold because it could break in the
&gt; future, it is not intended to be a part of the public API.
&gt;

Thanks for this advise :)

&gt; Hope that helps,
&gt;

Definitely, thank you.

Cheers,
Jeoren

&gt; Best,
&gt; Rusty
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Wed, Nov 30, 2011 at 5:01 AM, Jeroen van Dijk &lt;
&gt; jeroentjevand...@gmail.com&gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi all,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I'm currently evaluating the search functionality of Riak. This involves
&gt;&gt; porting an application from Postgres/Sphinx to possibly only Riak. The
&gt;&gt; application I'm porting doesn't need advanced search, but it does need a
&gt;&gt; level of search I have come to believe this isn't provided in a feasible
&gt;&gt; way by Riak Search out of the box. I've also seen some sources that make me
&gt;&gt; worry about the performance of search [1, 2]. I hope to be proved wrong
&gt;&gt; here or get some advice how to work around this so I can just use Riak
&gt;&gt; Search and without an external search facility. As a disclaimer, I haven't
&gt;&gt; done any benchmarks yet and this is just based on what I have read so far.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; The use case I'm talking about is when you are looking for a term that is
&gt;&gt; very common and thus will yield many results. My understanding of the
&gt;&gt; implementation of Riak [citation needed] is that the search is divided into
&gt;&gt; a few phases. The first one is collecting results for each term. After that
&gt;&gt; comes merging, sorting and limiting the result set. So for this particular
&gt;&gt; case collecting all results would be infeasible and would kill performance.
&gt;&gt; Even when a limit is set because limiting comes in a phase after collecting
&gt;&gt; and the merging of results.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; The first question is, can the above be confirmed? I've read about Riak
&gt;&gt; Search performance optimization here [3], but that seems to be for a
&gt;&gt; different problem.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I've read here [1] that one can use search\\_fold to interrupt the
&gt;&gt; collecting phase when enough results are fetched. I would like to know if
&gt;&gt; this a best/official practice and if it really solves the issue?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I guess what I'm missing is a wiki page of "when and when not to use Riak
&gt;&gt; Search" or "how and how not to use Riak search". If this already exists I
&gt;&gt; completely missed it.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Cheers,
&gt;&gt; Jeroen
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; [1] http://blog.inagist.com/searching-with-riaksearch
&gt;&gt; [2]
&gt;&gt; http://www.productionscale.com/home/2011/11/20/building-an-application-upon-riak-part-1.html#axzz1enL4I6KTl
&gt;&gt; [3]
&gt;&gt; http://basho.com/blog/technical/2011/07/18/Boosting-Riak-Search-Query-Performance-With-Inline-Fields/
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; http://wiki.basho.com/Riak-Search.html
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Rusty Klophaus (@rustyio)
&gt; \\*Basho Technologies, Inc.\\*
&gt; www.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
