---
title: "Re: worker_limit"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-03-10T08:23:33-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06931"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06930"
author_name: "Jeremiah Peschka"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-03-10T08:23:33-08:00
---


Here's a better question: What does "sufficient capacity" mean?

For example: SQL Server uses this awesome formula: 512 + ((logical CPUs - 4) \\* 
16). In this case I know that "sufficient capacity" with SQL Server means 
"don't change this number unless you're really really smart".

However, with Riak, I'm even dumber than I am with SQL Server, so I'm not sure 
how I'd go about determining what sufficient capacity is. In the enterprise 
space, stray servers laying about with 16 cores isn't that uncommon, not to 
mention the 80 core monsters that can be had for relatively cheap these days. 

So, after rambling, I repeat the question: What does "sufficient capacity" mean?
---
Jeremiah Peschka - Managing Director, Brent Ozar PLF, LLC
Microsoft SQL Server MVP

On Mar 10, 2012, at 8:17 AM, Andrew Thompson wrote:

&gt; On Sat, Mar 10, 2012 at 03:43:19AM -0800, heffergm wrote:
&gt;&gt; Can someone tell me what the default worker\\_limit is? I haven't been able to
&gt;&gt; track it down... thanks!
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; --- 1.1.1 release notes:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Clients can either decide to retry (preferably with a backoff/retries limit
&gt;&gt; mechanism) or if the hardware has sufficient capacity the number of workers
&gt;&gt; per vnode can be increased by setting worker\\_limit in etc/app.config.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; {riak\\_pipe, [{worker\\_limit, #Workers}]}
&gt;&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; According to the sourcecode, the default limit is 50.
&gt; 
&gt; Andrew
&gt; 
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com


\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

