---
title: "Re: Does Java client support querying large amounts of data from	Riak? What is the JSON parse/serialize overhead for such Queries?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-09-28T11:34:03-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04907"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04901"
author_name: "Ryan Zezeski"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-09-28T11:34:03-07:00
---


Harshal,

Harshal,

If I understand correctly you are trying to retrieve a set of objects that
match a given search query?

1: mapreduce will not go thru the entire key list if you feed it a search
query on input, only the matched objects

2: to rule out any funkiness in the java client have you tried the queries
via curl as well?

The nominal latency is going to highly depend on many factors including
network, # of objects matched, backend used, machine specs, # of nodes, # of
concurrent queries, etc. My first question would be what is the average
result set size coming back for these 4 second latencies (i.e. how many
objects are matched by the query)?


-Ryan

On Wed, Sep 28, 2011 at 2:15 PM, Harshal Dhir
wrote:

&gt; Hi,
&gt;
&gt; We currently using riak java client 0.15.0-SNAPSHOT, but there is no better
&gt; interface for RiakSearch at the moment. We are trying to fetch data from a
&gt; bucket with million rows, here is a gist of issues we are facing with
&gt; different approaches:
&gt;
&gt; - MapReduce:
&gt; - Using mapreduce, the data response is just too slow due to the
&gt; fact that this is a O(N) operation of going through the keys list.
&gt; - Solr Client:
&gt; - Using Solr Client, we are able to query but the response takes a
&gt; long time about 4seconds to return a nominal result is still slow. [I 
&gt; heard
&gt; the normal response time is approx 200ms]
&gt;
&gt; Is there a way in the current java client to fetch large amount of data in
&gt; nominal time.
&gt;
&gt; What is the recommended approach of saving / retrieving / querying this
&gt; data in the fastest possible way?
&gt;
&gt; Thanks
&gt; Harshal
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

