---
title: "Re: Riak 1.0, Clojure and the Java Client"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-10-07T15:09:07-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05102"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg05100"
author_name: "Russell Brown"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-10-07T15:09:07-07:00
---


Hi Tim,

On 7 Oct 2011, at 22:45, Tim Robinson wrote:

&gt; 
&gt; Hello,
&gt; 
&gt; I have been slowly learning & evaluating Riak for a product I am developing. 
&gt; Originally I gave Riak a whirl about 6 months back, but stopped due to some 
&gt; missing features. With the recent release of 1.0 I've decided to give it 
&gt; another chance.
&gt; 
&gt; So here are a few kick off questions I hope you can help answer to get me 
&gt; started again:
&gt; 
&gt; 1. Since I am back to square one, I am looking at the clients again.... 
&gt; Currently my programming language of choice is Clojure, and initially I had 
&gt; been playing around with the Clj-Riak library 
&gt; (https://github.com/mmcgrana/clj-riak) which I had believed was a thin 
&gt; wrapper around the standard Java protocol buffer client maintained by Basho, 
&gt; however in looking at the source I notice clj-riak actually uses an 
&gt; alternative client, linked here: 
&gt; https://github.com/krestenkrab/riak-java-pb-client, written by some fellow at 
&gt; trifork (isn't trifork Basho's primary investor?). Anyways it looks as though 
&gt; this Kresten fellow has been able to improve the java client's performance by 
&gt; a factor of 10. Has anyone upgraded this alternate version, or have an 
&gt; opinion to its alignment with Riak 1.0?

So, (Dr.) Kresten's PB client was integrated into the Basho client about 0.14. 
Basho fixed some minor bugs in it for our 0.14.1 release. As of now (1.0rc1) it 
is one of the two bedrock APIs of the riak-java-client, although it is somewhat 
smoothed over by a compatibility layer that allows you to use either HTTP or PB 
with the same API. The Basho repo has fixes to Kresten's repo, so, bottom line, 
if you want raw speed and can sacrifice API parity, use the pbc.RiakClient from 
the 1.0rc1 release of Basho's riak-java-client, it is basically Trifork code 
with some fixes.

&gt; 
&gt; Note: I'm sure I can use the new java client,

Let me know why not, please.

&gt; but a 10x speed up sounds pretty appealing and I'm wondering why it's not 
&gt; already a topic here.

Figures here (http://wiki.basho.com/Java-Client-Benchmark.html) give a more 
realistic comparison, I am seeing 2.5x-4x speed up, still not to be ignored.

I would really like to be able to mould the riak-java-client to clojure. Better 
still, it would be great to create a Statebox 
(https://github.com/mochi/statebox) like clojure client for Riak. Greg Burd (at 
Basho) and I have already talked about this, and if you're interested, 
collaboration would be cool.

I'll leave your other question to someone better informed.

Cheers

Russell

&gt; 
&gt; 2. Are there any known plans for a Riak cloud service? I know about Joyent, 
&gt; but frankly I don't like their business model and can't see using them. Just 
&gt; curious if there's anything in the works. 
&gt; 
&gt; Note: as a preemptive answe: I'm looking for a service which is 1. more 
&gt; reasonably priced, 2. has an initial free tier and 3. automates the upgrades 
&gt; and the linking/start-up process... so really, I'm looking for the MongoHQ of 
&gt; Riak (https://mongohq.com/pricing).
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; Tim Robinson 
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

