---
title: "Re: Map/Reduce : mapred_funterm() for qfun problem"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-04-22T12:56:28-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00130"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg00126"
author_name: "Abeming Sf"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-04-22T12:56:28-07:00
---


Hi Russel,

Thank you for ur reply. Yes I'm in dev and I just create another function to
load the module back. Though, to hook it into reloader is a good idea.
Thanks for the link.

Regards,
Abe

On 23 April 2010 03:17, Russell Brown  wrote:

&gt; I am slow, you already answered yourself.
&gt;
&gt; Hi,
&gt; Yes. If you look in the log on the Riak node you well see that the env
&gt; around your Fun is the module that contains it (even though it is an anon
&gt; fun, this is weird to a JavaScript programer) so if the module changes you
&gt; will need to reload it on the riak nodes. If you need highly dynamic, oft
&gt; changing M/R fun it might be best to use JavaScript. If it is just because
&gt; you are in dev then use that gist to propagate your code changes (maybe hook
&gt; it into a reloader type module (
&gt; http://code.google.com/p/mochiweb/source/browse/trunk/src/reloader.erl)).
&gt;
&gt; There is a thread about this on the trapexit forum here
&gt; http://www.trapexit.org/forum/viewtopic.php?p=53520
&gt;
&gt; Cheers
&gt;
&gt; Russell
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On 22 Apr 2010, at 19:35, Abeming Sf wrote:
&gt;
&gt; Hi Russel,
&gt;
&gt; Thank you for the link.
&gt;
&gt; After recompile mapred module, do we need to add it again to riak node?I
&gt; still got the same error "all nodes failed" when execute m/r from that
&gt; module.
&gt;
&gt; Regards,
&gt; Abe
&gt;
&gt; On 23 April 2010 01:45, Russell Brown  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi,
&gt;&gt; Have a look at this thread
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/pipermail/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com/2010-April/000830.html
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; The issue is that the code needs to be on the riak node. I use the gist
&gt;&gt; here http://gist.github.com/351659 from that thread in development to
&gt;&gt; make sure my M/R funs are available.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; HTH
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Russell
&gt;&gt; On 22 Apr 2010, at 18:08, Abeming Sf wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I encounter the same problem with this guy
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/pipermail/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com/2010-March/000809.htmlwhere
&gt;&gt; I able to use qfun as fun term in riak/erlang console but failed when
&gt;&gt; execute it from erlang module. It always returning "all nodes failed" error.
&gt;&gt; Fyi, I able to use jsanon/jsfun as fun term and execute it from erlang
&gt;&gt; module.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; There is a workaround
&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/pipermail/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com/2010-March/000810.html
&gt;&gt; .
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Instead of using jsanon/jsfun and modfun as workaround, is there any
&gt;&gt; solution if I still want to use qfun?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Regards,
&gt;&gt; Abe
&gt;
