---
title: "Re: Storage of time-series data"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-05-18T06:53:46-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00407"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg00403"
author_name: "Sean Cribbs"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-05-18T06:53:46-07:00
---


Joel,

Riak's only query mechanism aside from simple key retrieval is map-reduce. 
However, there are a number of strategies you could take, depending on what you 
want to query. I don't know the requirements of your application, but here are 
some options:

1) Store the data either keyed on the timestamp, or as separate objects linked 
from a timestamp object.
2) Create buckets for each time-window you want to track. For example, if I 
wanted to box data by minute, I'd make bucket names that look like: 
2010-05-18T09.46. Then if I want all the data from that minute, I'd run a 
map-reduce query with that bucket name as the inputs.
3) Create your own secondary indexes with a post-commit hook or code in your 
application for year, month, day, etc. The secondary index would be, like #1, 
keys that only contain links to the actual data.

With any of these options (which are by no means exhaustive), your map-reduce 
query will need to sort the data in a reduce phase if you require chronological 
ordering. Also, if you're building your own indexes in separate buckets, 
depending on the write throughput of your application, you might want to build 
in some sort of conflict resolution and turn on allow\\_mult so that concurrent 
updates are not lost.

Sean Cribbs 
Developer Advocate
Basho Technologies, Inc.
http://basho.com/

On May 17, 2010, at 8:31 PM, Joel Pitt wrote:

&gt; Hi,
&gt; 
&gt; I'm trying to work out the best way of storing temporal data in Riak.
&gt; 
&gt; I've been investigating several NoSQL solutions and originally started
&gt; out using CouchDB, however I want to move to a db that scales more
&gt; gradually (CouchDB scales, but you really have to set up the
&gt; architecture before-hand and I'd prefer to be able to build a cluster
&gt; a node at a time)
&gt; 
&gt; In CouchDB, I use a multi-level key in a map-reduce view to create an
&gt; index by time. Each reduce level corresponds to year, month, day,
&gt; time... so I can easily get aggregate data for say a month.
&gt; 
&gt; In addition to Riak I'm investigating Cassandra. In Cassandra the way
&gt; to store time series is by making the column keys timestamps and
&gt; sorting columns by TimeUUID. This allows one to do slices across a
&gt; range of time. This isn't exactly the same as what I have in CouchDB,
&gt; but by consensus it seems to be the way to store a time index.
&gt; 
&gt; Any suggestions for working with or creating time indexes in Riak?
&gt; 
&gt; Ideally I'd be able to query documents with a time range to either get
&gt; the documents, or to calculate aggregate statistics using a map-reduce
&gt; task.
&gt; 
&gt; Any information appreciated :-)
&gt; 
&gt; Joel Pitt, PhD | http://ferrouswheel.me | +64 21 101 7308
&gt; NetEmpathy Co-founder | http://netempathy.com
&gt; OpenCog Developer | http://opencog.org
&gt; Board member, Humanity+ | http://humanityplus.org
&gt; 
