---
title: "Re: Ripple document NoMethodError: undefined method `all' for	Customer:Class"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-10-28T17:31:48-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05356"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg05354"
author_name: "Sean Cribbs"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-10-28T17:31:48-07:00
---


Jeff is correct. It's not actually an exception, just a warning (with backtrace 
so you can find where it is called in your code). When you understand what 
list-keys does, you will see why that warning exists.

Sean Cribbs

On Oct 28, 2011, at 8:20 PM, Jeff Pollard  wrote:

&gt; Hey Eric,
&gt; 
&gt; You're not doing anything wrong. That notice is purposely in the code to 
&gt; alert you that calling Riak::Bucket#keys is an expensive operation and should 
&gt; not be used in production. My understanding is that it's less expensive in 
&gt; 1.0 (we're still on 0.14), but I would assume it's still an expensive-enough 
&gt; call to not make in production.
&gt; 
&gt; On Thu, Oct 27, 2011 at 10:23 AM, Eric Chaves  wrote:
&gt; Hi Dan,
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks for the help. I changed to list method but it seems I'm still doing 
&gt; something wrong. Calling "Customer.list" raises an exception 
&gt; "Riak::Bucket#keys is an expensive operation that should not be used in 
&gt; production" with the results at the end of it. 
&gt; 
&gt; Letting ripple aside, what would be the recommended way to retrieve a list 
&gt; of all documents/keys under a certain bucket? Should I use a map/reduce for 
&gt; that?
&gt; 
&gt; Cheers,
&gt; 
&gt; Eric
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 2011/10/27 Dan Reverri 
&gt; Hi Eric,
&gt; 
&gt; I believe the method was changed to `list`; I don't know what version of 
&gt; Ripple changed the method name.
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; Dan
&gt; 
&gt; Daniel Reverri
&gt; Developer Advocate
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; d...@basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Thu, Oct 27, 2011 at 8:59 AM, Eric Chaves  wrote:
&gt; Hi Guys,
&gt; 
&gt; I'm trying to learn Riak using padrino + ripple and for that I created a 
&gt; padrino project with one Customer model using the Ripple::Document model and 
&gt; start playing around in the padrino console. The project setup seems to be ok 
&gt; since I can create and save instance objects from padrino console however 
&gt; whenever I call Customer.all I got a method undefined error.
&gt; 
&gt; Am I doing something wrong here? Is there another way to retrieve all 
&gt; documents within a bucket?
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks in advance,
&gt; 
&gt; Eric
&gt; 
 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
 
&gt; 
