---
title: "Re: Javascript swapout"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-12-02T16:29:28-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01705"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg01704"
author_name: "Bob Ippolito"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-12-02T16:29:28-08:00
---


The erlang bindings for 0mq aren't very easy to compile on Mac OS X
and last I checked it required some unreleased version of 0mq to work
correctly. We wasted a few cycles on it recently. It all looks good in
theory but in practice it didn't feel like it was ready.

On Fri, Dec 3, 2010 at 7:23 AM, Kevin Smith  wrote:
&gt; 0mq is definitely on my list of tech to evaluate when we get around to 
&gt; implementing this feature. I've heard the Erlang bindings are pretty good 
&gt; which is definitely a plus.
&gt;
&gt; --Kevin
&gt; On Dec 2, 2010, at 7:16 PM, Greg Steffensen wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Have you guys seen the zeromq library?  It's a fast, brokerless message 
&gt;&gt; passing library (the sender can talk directly to the recipient, without a 
&gt;&gt; message queue server in the middle).  That plus protocol buffers might be an 
&gt;&gt; easy way to call out to arbitrary code for mapreduce work, and you'd get the 
&gt;&gt; ability to make the recipient local or remote.  Their user guide actually 
&gt;&gt; suggests that it was inspired by erlang.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Greg
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Thu, Dec 2, 2010 at 7:04 PM, Kevin Smith  wrote:
&gt;&gt; Unfortunately that's not really a possibility. We selected Spidermonkey 
&gt;&gt; because it's lightweight and designed for embedded use cases. To do the same 
&gt;&gt; with Rhino would require embedding the JVM which would be problematic to 
&gt;&gt; embed in the same way.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I have thought about implementing an external interface for map and reduce 
&gt;&gt; phases similar to Hadoop's streams interface so users could perform maps and 
&gt;&gt; reduces using whatever technology is appropriate for them. Would this work 
&gt;&gt; for your use case?
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; --Kevin
&gt;&gt; On Dec 2, 2010, at 6:35 PM, Hec H wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; Just wondering what the level of embed spidermonkey JS engine is within 
&gt;&gt; &gt; riak. Not too sure on the base code or related to C but are their 
&gt;&gt; &gt; opportinites via Java-Erlang interface for a Rhino JS/Java engine.
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;                                        Thanks
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt;                                          Hec
&gt;&gt; &gt;
&gt;&gt; &gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
