---
title: "Re: More on Map/Reduce, Riak, and Grails Gorm, spring-data support"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-12-01T08:08:48-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01684"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg01678"
author_name: "Kevin Smith"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-12-01T08:08:48-08:00
---


Responses inline.

On Nov 30, 2010, at 4:18 PM, Jon Brisbin wrote:

&gt; I'm still struggling with some unexpected results in running tests for the 
&gt; Java support I'm writing for Grails and Spring Data.
&gt; 
&gt; As an example, I ran the full Gorm TCK test suite against my local Riak 
&gt; server (0.13.0) and had 3 failures out of 103. Not bad, though my goal is 0 
&gt; failures in 103 tests. :) The weirdness started happening when I ran the test 
&gt; that failed during the full test run manually. It passed with no errors. So I 
&gt; got a different result when running it manually than what I got when running 
&gt; it in a batch.
&gt; 
&gt; Another thing that's actually a little concerning is the following two calls 
&gt; to Riak's Map/Reduce. I log all the M/R I execute, so on the test that 
&gt; failed, I executed that Javascript. Sure enough, no results, which means a 
&gt; failed test. In the second run, I added the call to ejsLog() so I could see 
&gt; what's going on, and I got a different result:
&gt; 
&gt; +-( ~ ):&gt; curl -v -H "Content-Type: application/json" 
&gt; http://localhost:8098/mapred -d @-
&gt; {"inputs":"grails.gorm.tests.TestEntity","query":[{"map":{"language":"javascript","source":"function(v){ejsLog('/tmp/mapred.log',
&gt; 'map input: '+JSON.stringify(v)); var row = Riak.mapValuesJson(v); row[0].id 
&gt; = v.key; return row; }"}}]}
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; POST /mapred HTTP/1.1
&gt;&gt; User-Agent: curl/7.19.7 (universal-apple-darwin10.0) libcurl/7.19.7 
&gt;&gt; OpenSSL/0.9.8l zlib/1.2.3
&gt;&gt; Host: localhost:8098
&gt;&gt; Accept: \\*/\\*
&gt;&gt; Content-Type: application/json
&gt;&gt; Content-Length: 234
&gt;&gt; 
&gt; &lt; HTTP/1.1 200 OK
&gt; &lt; Server: MochiWeb/1.1 WebMachine/1.7.2 (participate in the frantic)
&gt; &lt; Date: Tue, 30 Nov 2010 20:57:36 GMT
&gt; &lt; Content-Type: application/json
&gt; &lt; Content-Length: 2
&gt; &lt; 
&gt; 
&gt; []
&gt; 
&gt; +-( ~ ):&gt; curl -v -H "Content-Type: application/json" 
&gt; http://localhost:8098/mapred -d @-
&gt; {"inputs":"grails.gorm.tests.TestEntity","query":[{"map":{"language":"javascript","source":"function(v){ejsLog('/tmp/mapred.log',
&gt; 'map input: '+JSON.stringify(v)); var row = Riak.mapValuesJson(v); row[0].id 
&gt; = v.key; ejsLog('/tmp/mapred.log', 'map output: '+JSON.stringify(row)); 
&gt; return row; }"}}]}
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; POST /mapred HTTP/1.1
&gt;&gt; User-Agent: curl/7.19.7 (universal-apple-darwin10.0) libcurl/7.19.7 
&gt;&gt; OpenSSL/0.9.8l zlib/1.2.3
&gt;&gt; Host: localhost:8098
&gt;&gt; Accept: \\*/\\*
&gt;&gt; Content-Type: application/json
&gt;&gt; Content-Length: 297
&gt;&gt; 
&gt; &lt; HTTP/1.1 200 OK
&gt; &lt; Server: MochiWeb/1.1 WebMachine/1.7.2 (participate in the frantic)
&gt; &lt; Date: Tue, 30 Nov 2010 20:58:08 GMT
&gt; &lt; Content-Type: application/json
&gt; &lt; Content-Length: 75
&gt; &lt; 
&gt; 
&gt; [{"child":"-5040867138647877277","name":"Bob","id":"-7706240328526746461"}]
&gt; 
&gt; It's like just by changing the Javascript enough to get a different hash, I 
&gt; got a different result. 
&gt; 
&gt; What I suspect is happening with the test suite is that M/R scripts are run 
&gt; against data sets that aren't yet complete because the tests load several 
&gt; entries into the database, then immediately try to query them back out. It 
&gt; looks like if that M/R script is run against this incomplete data, I'll keep 
&gt; getting the same incorrect result until the M/R script's hash changes. This 
&gt; is a complete WAG. All I know is that the code does what it's supposed to 
&gt; when Riak returns the results it's supposed to. :) Is there caching I'm 
&gt; running into here?

There is a cache between the MapReduce machinery and the Javascript VMs to 
reduce demand on the VMs. It is a two-level cache based on the bucket/key pair 
being accessed and the hash of the Javascript function name or source being 
invoked. Changing either the function or writing to the bucket/key pair should 
cause the cache to eject entries. 

If you want to disable the cache, you can do so by adding the following lines 
to the riak\\_kv section of your app.config:

{vnode\\_cache\\_entries, 0}

I will dig into the caching code and see if there's an issue with stale entries 
not getting ejected.

&gt; 
&gt; If you could help me figure out why some tests are prone to this problem when 
&gt; others aren't, I'd be very appreciative. It seems to be related to tests that 
&gt; save multiple objects in a loop. We had talked about getting close to doing 
&gt; an M1 release of this sometime soon. I'm still not 100% comfortable with 
&gt; moving forward on that until I can get consist and clean test runs. Having 
&gt; tests fail randomly doesn't instill a tremendous amount of confidence in me. 
&gt; :/
&gt; 
&gt; If the problem is eventual consistency is biting me, how do you work around 
&gt; that in a test suite with dozens of tests that hit the server as fast as it 
&gt; can?

What are you using for W or DW on your write calls? With W/DW &lt; N the call can 
return while the data is still being replicated.

--Kevin

&gt; 
&gt; Thanks for all the help so far! :)
&gt; 
&gt; Jon Brisbin
&gt; Portal Webmaster
&gt; NPC International, Inc.
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com


\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

