---
title: "Re: Informal survey about Python client API changes"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-07-24T09:23:16-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08048"
author_name: "Arsenio Santos"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-07-24T09:23:16-07:00
---


Hi there, Sean! These sound great (especially #2, for our specific needs).
--
\\*Arsenio Santos\\*
Circa Co-Founder & CTO
http://cir.ca · @circa 

&gt; From: Sean Cribbs 
&gt; To: riak-users 
&gt; Subject: Informal survey about Python client API changes
&gt; Message-ID:
&gt;  ov6khpqaffmjt7ajzgzh+mhhlzvm-oghodd63...@mail.gmail.com&gt;
&gt; Content-Type: text/plain; charset="iso-8859-1"
&gt;
&gt; Hey riak-users,
&gt;
&gt; I've begun adding Riak 1.2-related features to the Python client. As I am
&gt; doing so, I am reminded about how much technical debt exists in the client,
&gt; as discussed at length previously on Github and this mailing list. Because
&gt; I know some of you are using the client in production or as a component of
&gt; another library, I'd like to assess what risks there are in removing or
&gt; changing certain features. Here's my plan:
&gt;
&gt; 1. Remove all the set\\_r/get\\_r-style methods for quorums. Instead,
&gt; RiakBucket will have custom object-properties for these that let you set
&gt; the corresponding quorums in the bucket-properties, but will not be the
&gt; sort of cascading-preference behavior that it is currently. If you want
&gt; to
&gt; change a quorum when fetching, storing, or deleting a key, you can pass
&gt; it
&gt; with keyword arguments to the appropriate method.
&gt; 2. Remove the edge-case-ridden ConnectionManager for a pair of resource
&gt; pools for each protocol, like what is available in the Ruby client.
&gt; Access
&gt; to a connection would be granted via a 'with' statement, naturally, and
&gt; the
&gt; protocol selected would be based on the stated preference of the user,
&gt; or
&gt; on whether the transport supports the given feature. For example, stats
&gt; would always use HTTP. We could also take this opportunity to add
&gt; error-sensitive host selection and automatic retries to the client.
&gt; 3. Merge the RiakSearch class into the RiakClient class and push some of
&gt; its functionality down into the connection classes.
&gt;
&gt; I intend to make the Python client ready for the 1.2 release without these
&gt; refactorings, but I would greatly appreciate your feedback before starting
&gt; the above items.
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt; Software Engineer
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; http://basho.com/
