---
title: "Re: Streaming map/reduce results"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-03-03T07:08:44-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg02542"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg02541"
author_name: "Sean Cribbs"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-03-03T07:08:44-08:00
---


Yes, it's possible that an individual phase can timeout before the entire job 
has timed out. We realize this isn't intuitive and are looking into solutions.

Sean Cribbs 
Developer Advocate
Basho Technologies, Inc.
http://basho.com/

On Mar 3, 2011, at 9:44 AM, Jason J. W. Williams wrote:

&gt; Hi Sean,
&gt; 
&gt; That's weird, because I'm seeing timeouts sooner than the one passed
&gt; in but only when it's the reduce phase that errors out.
&gt; 
&gt; -J
&gt; 
&gt; On Thu, Mar 3, 2011 at 6:34 AM, Sean Cribbs  wrote:
&gt;&gt; Jason,
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; You can't currently change the timeout on individual phases, just on the 
&gt;&gt; entire job. We're reprioritizing MapReduce to receive some extra love in the 
&gt;&gt; near future, so if that is a critical feature for you, be sure to file a bug 
&gt;&gt; on issues.basho.com.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt;&gt; Developer Advocate
&gt;&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt;&gt; http://basho.com/
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On Mar 2, 2011, at 10:34 PM, Jason J. W. Williams wrote:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Hi Sean,
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Thanks. Also, is there anyway to increase the javascript reduce phase
&gt;&gt;&gt; timeout? Doing some test M/R jobs, and the reduce phase doesn't seem
&gt;&gt;&gt; to honor the timeout passed in? Thought playing with streaming would
&gt;&gt;&gt; help that, but looks like not. Thank you in advance.
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; -J
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; On Wed, Mar 2, 2011 at 8:25 PM, Sean Cribbs  wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; If your query has "keep":true on multiple phases, that phase key lets you 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; disambiguate results.
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Sean Cribbs
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; On Mar 2, 2011, at 9:28 PM, "Jason J. W. Williams" 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;  wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Hello,
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; When running map/reduce in streaming mode, since the results are from
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; the last phase (reduce) what is the significance of the phase key?
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; (e.g. {"phase":1,"data":[3]} )
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; -J
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
