---
title: "Re: GET vs map reduce"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-08-18T13:45:16-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04386"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04384"
author_name: "Jacques"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-08-18T13:45:16-07:00
---


Fyi, when I did something similar, I found that running separate parallel
get requests was substantially faster than a basic map reduce. That was
even the case when I ran the map reduce as an erlang function instead of
javascript.

You should be able to find my previous post at the end of java client
discussion thread from a couple months back. I can't remember the
difference but I think it may have been something like 100ms overhead to run
a map reduce versus parallel gets.

Jacques

On Thu, Aug 18, 2011 at 1:35 PM, Wilson MacGyver wrote:

&gt; Hi,
&gt;
&gt; I've been using map reduce to fake a bulk get.
&gt;
&gt; I do a post against map reduce interface, using the following
&gt;
&gt; {"inputs":
&gt; [["bucket1", "k1"],
&gt; ["bucket1", "k2"],
&gt; ["bucket1", "k3"],
&gt; ["bucket1", "k4"],
&gt; ["bucket1", "k5"],
&gt; ["bucket1", "k6"],
&gt; ["bucket1", "k7"],
&gt; ["bucket1", "k8"],
&gt; ["bucket1", "k9"]
&gt; ],
&gt; "query":[{"map":{"language":"javascript","source":"function(v) { return
&gt; [v.key,v
&gt; .values[0].data]; }"}}]}
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; as you can see, it's very straight forward, I'm just passing the list
&gt; of buckets and keys, and
&gt; then return them.
&gt;
&gt; I also set the R to 1.
&gt;
&gt; it's been working fine. but lately, as traffic begin to increase, we
&gt; started seeing time out errors
&gt; on the map reduce call. the strange thing is, if I issue GET on each
&gt; key, results are coming back
&gt; without any problem.
&gt;
&gt; are there any subtle differences between GET vs map reduce that I'm
&gt; not understanding?
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Omnem crede diem tibi diluxisse supremum.
&gt;

