---
title: "Riak Recap for 5/12 - 5/13"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-05-14T12:31:10-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00372"
author_name: "Mark Phillips"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-05-14T12:31:10-07:00
---


Afternoon, Evening, Morning -

This may be our longest Recap yet! (That's what I get for not sending
one out yesterday...)

Three gists of awesome #Riak conversations, a link to a new fuse
project and some great questions from #Riak.

Enjoy -

Mark

Community Manager
wiki.basho.com
twitter.com/pharkmillups


-----

RIak Recap for 5/12 - 5/13

1) @crucially released Riakfuse! If you're in the market for a
"distributed filesystem that uses riak as its backend store" then
you'll want check this out.

Repo here -- &gt; http://bit.ly/9cTWXR

It's also been added to list of projects on the wiki --- &gt;
https://wiki.basho.com/display/RIAK/Community-Developed+Libraries+and+Projects

2) Q --- Whats the difference between riaktag and rel properties in
Link headers? (from technoweenie via IRC)

 A --- rel is only used for the bucket link (or from the bucket to
its keys). In addition to that, rel has meaning under the RFC whereas
riaktag is our extension.

3) Q --- Is there a way to ask riak "Hey, I'm about to work with
&lt;&lt;"bucket"&gt;&gt;, &lt;&lt;"key"&gt;&gt;. Which physical node is the first in the ring
for that guy?" (from howboutjoe via IRC)

 A --- No. That is opaque to you.

4) Q --- Which is the recommended erlang interface, protobuffs or
distributed erlang? (from moonpolysoft via IRC)

 A --- Unless your code is running on the Riak node (i.e. not
using network) then the protobuf interface is probably the way to go.
it's newer, but can push more through.

5) seancribbs and danlarkin had a brief but illuminative exchange in
#Riak about atomic operations, eventual consistency, and coordinating
state in Riak that might be of interest to some of you.

Gist is here -- &gt; http://gist.github.com/401497

6) another gisted IRC convo that you might enjoy. This one features
tilgovi and seancribbs talking about replication specifics in a two
node cluster.

Check it out here ---&gt; http://gist.github.com/401507

7) Gist three for today's recap - benblack and bradfordw talking about
porting an app from Mongo --&gt; Riak and when it makes sense to use Riak
(or Redis...)

Read up here ---&gt; http://gist.github.com/401537

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

