---
title: "Re: [ANN] Riak CS"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-03-27T18:55:26-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07057"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg07056"
author_name: "Alexander Sicular"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-03-27T18:55:26-07:00
---


Awesome. Grats on the release and all the hard work that went into it. 

1. I heard differing things when I asked in other forums but I wanted to get an 
answer here, does Riak CS support range requests? Aka give me bytes 100-200 
from this 3MB file. 

2. Pricing. Is Riak CS priced like S3 in terms of storage volume, bandwidth and 
lookups?

Thank!
-Alexander


@siculars on twitter
http://siculars.posterous.com

Sent from my iRotaryPhone

On Mar 27, 2012, at 20:54, Mark Phillips  wrote:

&gt; Hi All, 
&gt; 
&gt; I just wanted to take a second and share some details on a new Riak-based 
&gt; product that Basho announced today. 
&gt; 
&gt; Riak, the open source database, has long served as the basis for our 
&gt; commercial offerings. Until this morning, RiakEDS [1] was the only member of 
&gt; that product family, with Multi Data Center Replication being the primary 
&gt; distinguishing feature between stock Riak and the EDS product. 
&gt; 
&gt; Today we introduced something called Riak CS [2], a closed-source product 
&gt; built on top Riak that provides an S3 API. Some of the main features of Riak 
&gt; CS:
&gt; 
&gt; \\* S3 REST API Compatibility 
&gt; \\* Multi Tenancy 
&gt; \\* Pluggable Auth
&gt; \\* Large Object Support 
&gt; \\* Per-Tenant Usage Visibility (for billing and metering)
&gt; \\* Multi Data Center Replication is also part of Riak CS
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks. Let me know if you have any questions. 
&gt; 
&gt; Mark 
&gt; 
&gt; [1] http://basho.com/products/riak-enterprise/
&gt; [2] http://basho.com/products/riakcs/
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

