---
title: "riak + hdf5 = awesome time series system?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-06-21T03:46:00-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00622"
author_name: "Sundberg, Patrik"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-06-21T03:46:00-07:00
---


Hi,

 

I have been looking at a lot of different alternatives for working with
time series data. The likes of kdb and fame are obviously tried, tested
and suitable solutions but also with a hefty price tag and closed
source. On the open source side I haven't so far found a good holistic
approach. What I have found is that HDF5 is a very good and efficient
library for storing and retrieving time series data (and numerical
datasets in general), but it's sort of a single user/single system
setup, but in terms of layers on top of it for replication, network
connectivity etc I haven't seen much.

 

Doing my initial reading around riak I was happy to see that there's
pluggable backend storage and it provides a lot of the higher level
features one would want. So I put the two together and asked myself the
question "Would riak with a HDF5 storage backend make a nice system for
working with time series data?"

 

I don't know the answer to that question yet and need to do more reading
to understand riak but I thought I'd throw the idea out there and see if
what comes back. 

 

The basic query would typically be "for series identified by name(s) X
(,Y,Z), give me the data for the time window between N to M".

 

Regards,

Patrik

 

 


######################################################################
The information contained in this communication is confidential and 
intended only for the individual(s) named above. If you are not a named
addressee, please notify the sender immediately and delete this email
from your system. The views expressed in this email are the views of
the author and do not necessarily represent the views of Millennium
Capital Partners LLP (MCP LLP) or any of its affiliates. Outgoing
and incoming electronic communications of MCP LLP and its affiliates,
including telephone communications, may be electronically archived and
subject to review and/or disclosure to someone other than the recipient.
MCP LLP is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
######################################################################
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

