---
title: "Re: missing keys?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-09-14T12:17:19-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08547"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg08546"
author_name: "Alexander Sicular"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-09-14T12:17:19-07:00
---


"Lazy writing of the data is not really an option for what we need."

Then I would say dw should equal n (dw=3 in your case) which would ensure that 
all data is on disk. Try rerunning your tests with that configuration. This 
should negatively affect performance though.

-Alexander Sicular

@siculars

On Sep 14, 2012, at 3:07 PM, Pat Lynch wrote:

&gt; Hey Alexander,
&gt; thanks for the response. Yup - I'm a Riak newbie for sure :). I have 
&gt; replication set to 3 on the cluster. So, if dw=2, is it durable or not? 
&gt; even if it's durable across vnodes. If it is durable across vnodes, then it 
&gt; should be queryable? 
&gt; 
&gt; One of the big considerations I have to look into is if the client writes to 
&gt; the server, and that client gets told that the key has been written, is it 
&gt; actually on disk or not? Eventual consistency is fine, but many of the other 
&gt; datastores have a WAL (much like leveldb), so at least if I pull the plug or 
&gt; the app dies we know that on restart the key is actually available. Do any 
&gt; of the RIAK settings give me this? (I thought that I was getting this with 
&gt; dw=2/r=2/w=2 and replication). Lazy writing of the data is not really an 
&gt; option for what we need.
&gt; 
&gt; thanks again,
&gt; Pat
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; Subject: Re: missing keys?
&gt; From: sicul...@gmail.com
&gt; Date: Fri, 14 Sep 2012 12:51:28 -0400
&gt; CC: rzeze...@basho.com; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; To: plynch1...@hotmail.com
&gt; 
&gt; Hi Pat,
&gt; 
&gt; "thanks for that. Is the default on dw not also quorum though?? so, in my 
&gt; case it should be 2 (since I have 2 nodes)??"
&gt; 
&gt; Consider the difference in the usage of the word "node." There is actually a 
&gt; large difference between two definitions of the commonly used word, "node."
&gt; 
&gt; 1. node: virtual node, as indicated by the ring\\_creation\\_size default value, 
&gt; which is 64, and can be changed in app.config.
&gt; 
&gt; 2. node: physical node, which is the number of physical machines in a cluster.
&gt; 
&gt; Historically and at the moment, virtual nodes are evenly divided amongst 
&gt; physical nodes.
&gt; 
&gt; The term "node" has been conflated and continues to be a pain point for 
&gt; newcomers to Riak (not that you are a newcomer, but in general).
&gt; 
&gt; In all cases, the values r, w, dw and considerations for quorum are entirely 
&gt; dependent on the replication value, known as n or n\\_val, which in turn 
&gt; represents replicas on a per virtual node basis.
&gt; 
&gt; Hope that clears some stuff up,
&gt; 
&gt; -Alexander Sicular
&gt; 
&gt; @siculars
&gt; 
&gt; On Sep 14, 2012, at 12:17 PM, Pat Lynch wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; Hi,
&gt; thanks for that. Is the default on dw not also quorum though?? so, in my 
&gt; case it should be 2 (since I have 2 nodes)??
&gt; 
&gt; thanks,
&gt; Pat.
&gt; 
&gt; Date: Fri, 14 Sep 2012 12:11:25 -0400
&gt; Subject: Re: missing keys?
&gt; From: rzeze...@basho.com
&gt; To: plynch1...@hotmail.com
&gt; CC: s...@basho.com; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; Pat,
&gt; 
&gt; On Fri, Sep 14, 2012 at 11:08 AM, Pat Lynch  wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; So, if I write a key to a cluster and then try to query that key, it may not 
&gt; find it unless I retry? Even if r=2 & w=2 ? I thought that at least 2 
&gt; systems had to have that key (either in memory or disk) for the write to have 
&gt; succeeded with those settings? If I had w=3, would you expect any missed 
&gt; keys ?? (note that I didn't try that because I expected performance issues).
&gt; 
&gt; It's important to note that `w` is considered complete once the value is 
&gt; queued in-memory waiting to be written do disk [1]. A read does not check 
&gt; the queue but only on-disk data. The `dw` flag is what you want to know that 
&gt; the value has made it to disk and can be seen by a read.
&gt; 
&gt; -Z
&gt; 
&gt; [1]: https://github.com/basho/riak\\_kv/blob/master/src/riak\\_kv\\_vnode.erl#L284

