---
title: "Re: riak-erlang-client"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-01-07T15:38:54-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01920"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg01919"
author_name: "Dan Reverri"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-01-07T15:38:54-08:00
---


Hi Anthony,

Would you mind sending a pull request for the documentation updates without
the protobuffs changes?

Regarding the protobuffs changes, it would be best to apply the changes to a
fork of the basho/erlang\\_protobuffs repository and send a pull request.

Regarding the buckets, they should be specified as binaries. I'll fix that
now.

Thanks,
Dan

Daniel Reverri
Developer Advocate
Basho Technologies, Inc.
d...@basho.com


On Fri, Jan 7, 2011 at 3:17 PM, Anthony Molinaro &lt;
antho...@alumni.caltech.edu&gt; wrote:

&gt; Hi,
&gt;
&gt; I recently forked riak-erlang-client to use the mainline erlang\\_protobuffs
&gt; (or at least a fork of it). In case any users out there are interested
&gt; here they are.
&gt;
&gt; https://github.com/djnym/riak-erlang-client
&gt; https://github.com/djnym/erlang\\_protobuffs
&gt;
&gt; So far they work great for me, and allow me to get the newly available
&gt; features
&gt; of erlang\\_protobuffs.
&gt;
&gt; I was also noticing some inconsistencies in the documentation of the client
&gt; which I fixed up (mostly that the put option is return\\_body, not
&gt; returnbody),
&gt; but also made a few other parts more consistent.
&gt;
&gt; However, I did notice one annoyance with the API which I was curious about.
&gt; For almost every example the bucket is passed as a binary, except for those
&gt; in the Bucket Properties section, where the bucket is passed as a string.
&gt; Is there a reason to not just make the riakc\\_pb\\_socket:get\\_bucket/2 and
&gt; riakc\\_pb\\_socket:set\\_bucket/3 calls take a binary like all the other calls?
&gt;
&gt; Just wondering,
&gt;
&gt; -Anthony
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; ------------------------------------------------------------------------
&gt; Anthony Molinaro 
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

