---
title: "Re: Time a link was created?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-10-23T19:09:10-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05255"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg05252"
author_name: "Alexander Sicular"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-10-23T19:09:10-07:00
---


By secondary index I meant the new indexing features in Riak 1.0. In order
to write out a link you need to write out the key/value/link (in the
header). Just include an indexing header for what you want to index, link
creation date in your case. Read up on secondary indexes in Riak.

@siculars
http://siculars.posterous.com

Sent from my rotary phone.
On Oct 23, 2011 5:56 PM, "Andrew Fisher"  wrote:

&gt; Thanks for the pointers guys:
&gt;
&gt; @eric - Am not sure the python library lets me do that - looking at the
&gt; docs and playing with the object this morning. I probably can't query by
&gt; that header at a later stage though can I?
&gt;
&gt; @siculars - Thanks for that - I think that's the option I'm going to go for
&gt; - is it a bit weird to be creating another set that just holds pointers to
&gt; another object for the sake of a date? Is there a more "riakful" way of
&gt; achieving what I'm setting out to do?
&gt;
&gt; Cheers
&gt; Andrew
&gt;
&gt; On Sat, Oct 22, 2011 at 1:14 AM, Alexander Sicular wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Use a secondary index when writing the key.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Otherwise the only date you get is last modified date as seen in the
&gt;&gt; header. Although that date is not indexed and would only work in your use
&gt;&gt; case if your link write was your last write to that key.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Cheerios,
&gt;&gt; Alexander
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; @siculars on twitter
&gt;&gt; http://siculars.posterous.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Sent from my iRotaryPhone
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Oct 21, 2011, at 1:14, Andrew Fisher  wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi all,
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; I'm using the python bindings for Riak so there may be an element of this
&gt;&gt;&gt; being obscured due to the library.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; I'm creating a link between two objects - I can establish it, query it
&gt;&gt;&gt; and tag it so that part is working great. What I want to do now is determine
&gt;&gt;&gt; the date/time a link was created between the two objects. That way I could
&gt;&gt;&gt; generate a job that says get me all the objects of bucket A that are linked
&gt;&gt;&gt; to bucket B that were linked at time X (and potentially date ranging down
&gt;&gt;&gt; the line as well but walk then run).
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Is this doable? Am I looking in the wrong place by looking at the data
&gt;&gt;&gt; available on the link itself?
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Kind regards
&gt;&gt;&gt; Andrew
&gt;&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\*\\*\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/\\*\\*mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_\\*\\*lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt;
&gt; \\*Andrew Fisher\\*
&gt;
&gt; Chief Technology Officer
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; [image: Description: http://jbadigital.com/images/email\\_footer.jpg]
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\*JBA Online Consultancy\\*
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; W: www.jbadigital.com
&gt;
&gt; A: Level 1, 2 Darling Street, South Yarra, Melbourne, 3141
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; The information contained in this email is confidential and is intended for
&gt; the use of the individual or entity named above. If the receiver of this
&gt; message is not the intended recipient, you are hereby notified that any
&gt; dissemination, distribution or copy of this email is strictly prohibited.
&gt; If you have received this e-mail in error, please notify our office by
&gt; telephone. JB/A and their employees do not represent that this transmission
&gt; is free from viruses or other defects and you should see it as your
&gt; responsibility to check for viruses and defects. JB/A disclaims any
&gt; liability to any person for loss or damage resulting (directly or
&gt; indirectly) from the receipt of electronic mail (including enclosures).
&gt;
&gt;
&lt;&gt;\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

