---
title: "Re: Delete bucket?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-07-28T13:43:07-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04119"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04118"
author_name: "Jeremiah Peschka"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-07-28T13:43:07-07:00
---


Depending on the client you're using, you can perform results streaming to pull 
back results and process them in chunks rather than waiting for a buffer to get 
filled. 

It's easy enough to write something like this using Ripple or CorrugatedIron. 
I'm guessing it's possible with other clients. 
---
Jeremiah Peschka
Founder, Brent Ozar PLF, LLC

On Jul 28, 2011, at 1:40 PM, Jonathan Langevin wrote:

&gt; I've read on the wiki that to delete a bucket, the only method is to manually 
&gt; delete all keys within the bucket.
&gt; So then what is the recommended process for deleting all keys within a 
&gt; bucket, manually?
&gt; 
&gt; I was initially just listing all keys within a bucket, and then iterating the 
&gt; keys to send delete requests, but I hit a wall when I had too many keys to 
&gt; get back in a list request (received header too large errors).
&gt; 
&gt; So I assume the alternative would be to run a mapreduce to pull keys from the 
&gt; bucket with a specified limit, to then execute the deletes?
&gt; While that's fine for an "active record" style environment (where there may 
&gt; be cleanup actions that must occur per object being deleted), is there 
&gt; another method for deleting all keys within a bucket, massively? (Maybe via a 
&gt; map call?)
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; Jonathan Langevin
&gt; Systems Administrator
&gt; Loom Inc.
&gt; Wilmington, NC: (910) 241-0433 - jlange...@loomlearning.com - 
&gt; www.loomlearning.com - Skype: intel352
&gt; 
