---
title: "Re: Issue in make all"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-01-09T09:23:49-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06184"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06182"
author_name: "suresh chandran"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-01-09T09:23:49-08:00
---


Thanks Jared.

i ran the make clean command as you said, and it  did work. but then it didnt 
create the dev directory. I am only familiar with the instructions on how to 
run a three node cluster ( dev1, 2 and 3) riak . I tried doing made devrel and 
I get this error below.

I already set a three node cluster on my desktop, where i have configured and 
was working. Now since I moved to the laptop I am unable to start the Riak and 
there by do any changes for my project. Even if someone directs me on how to 
set a riak up and fine, it would be good. The only instruction seems to be to 
make it from the source which is not working in my case.

Thanks
Suresh Chandran

(cd rel && ../rebar generate target\\_dir=../dev/dev1 
overlay\\_vars=vars/dev1\\_vars.config)
==&gt; rel (generate)
{"init terminating in do\\_boot","Illegal library 
/Users/sureshcnair/official/riaksrc/riak-1.0.2/rel/../deps/riak\\_search/apps: no 
such file or directory"}

Crash dump was written to: erl\\_crash.dump
init terminating in do\\_boot (Illegal library 
/Users/sureshcnair/official/riaksrc/riak-1.0.2/rel/../deps/riak\\_search/apps: no 
such file or directory)
make: \\*\\*\\* [dev1] Error 1

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
 From: Jared Morrow 
To: suresh chandran  
Cc: riak-users@lists.basho.com 
Sent: Monday, January 9, 2012 12:00 PM
Subject: Re: Issue in make all
 

Try cleaning out the directory with a 
'make clean distclean pkgclean'

The regex to set the supported erlang version is in the rebar.config file if 
you do want to change that.

And build again.

-Jared

On Jan 9, 2012, at 9:51 AM, suresh chandran wrote:

Also, I uninstalled the older Erlang and installed, 14B03 sing the below set of 
commands.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;curl -O https://raw.github.com/spawngrid/kerl/master/kerl; chmod a+x kerl
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;./kerl build R14B03 r14b03
&gt;
&gt;./kerl install r14b03 /opt/erlang/r14b03
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;. /opt/erlang/r14b03/activate
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;to resolve this version issue. I am not sure why it says the curent ERLANG 
&gt;version is 15B.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;Thanks
&gt;Suresh Chandran
&gt;
&gt;\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; From: suresh chandran 
&gt;To: Sean Cribbs  
&gt;Cc: "riak-users@lists.basho.com"  
&gt;Sent: Monday, January 9, 2012 11:47 AM
&gt;Subject: Re: Issue in make all
&gt; 
&gt;
&gt;Thanks Sean
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;I tried it. But it still reports the same issue. On other hand, is 
&gt;it picking the regex from somewhere else, cos' i dont see the regex to match 
&gt;r13b04 which it says is supported.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;Thanks
&gt;Suresh Chandran
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; From: Sean Cribbs 
&gt;To: suresh chandran  
&gt;Cc: "riak-users@lists.basho.com"  
&gt;Sent: Monday, January 9, 2012 10:09 AM
&gt;Subject: Re: Issue in make all
&gt; 
&gt;
&gt;Suresh,
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;We do not officially support R15B yet, but you can try changing the regex in 
&gt;rebar.config to include R15.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;{require\\_otp\\_vsn, "R14B0[234]|R15"}. 
&gt;
&gt;The above should do the trick.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;On Mon, Jan 9, 2012 at 9:58 AM, suresh chandran  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;I am trying to install Riak in my macbook. I installed erlang using "sudo port 
&gt;install erlang +ssl" . When i do a "make all" in riak, i get the below error 
&gt;and it quits.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;I am trying to install the source as mentioned 
&gt;&gt;http://wiki.basho.com/Building-a-Development-Environment.html. For some weird 
&gt;&gt;reason, when i install the tarball, i am not able to connect to 8091 and also 
&gt;&gt;I am not able to find the number of partitions. How do I configure the port 
&gt;&gt;where riak is running and the number of partitions in tarball? 
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;Thanks
&gt;&gt;Suresh Chandran
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; make all
&gt;&gt;fatal: Not a git repository (or any of the parent directories): .git
&gt;&gt;./rebar get-deps
&gt;&gt;fatal: Not a git repository (or any of the parent directories): .git
&gt;&gt;fatal: Not a git repository (or any of the parent directories): .git
&gt;&gt;fatal: Not a git repository (or any of the parent directories): .git
&gt;&gt;==&gt; cluster\\_info (get-deps)
&gt;&gt;==&gt; skerl (get-deps)
&gt;&gt;==&gt; lager (get-deps)
&gt;&gt;==&gt; poolboy (get-deps)
&gt;&gt;==&gt; protobuffs (get-deps)
&gt;&gt;==&gt; basho\\_stats (get-deps)
&gt;&gt;==&gt; riak\\_sysmon (get-deps)
&gt;&gt;==&gt; mochiweb (get-deps)
&gt;&gt;==&gt; webmachine (get-deps)
&gt;&gt;==&gt; riak\\_core (get-deps)
&gt;&gt;==&gt; riakc (get-deps)
&gt;&gt;==&gt; luke (get-deps)
&gt;&gt;==&gt; erlang\\_js (get-deps)
&gt;&gt;==&gt; bitcask (get-deps)
&gt;&gt;==&gt; merge\\_index (get-deps)
&gt;&gt;==&gt; ebloom (get-deps)
&gt;&gt;==&gt; eper (get-deps)
&gt;&gt;==&gt; eleveldb (get-deps)
&gt;&gt;==&gt; edown (get-deps)
&gt;&gt;==&gt; sext (get-deps)
&gt;&gt;==&gt; riak\\_pipe (get-deps)
&gt;&gt;==&gt; basho\\_metrics (get-deps)
&gt;&gt;==&gt; riak\\_kv (get-deps)
&gt;&gt;==&gt; luwak (get-deps)
&gt;&gt;==&gt; lucene\\_parser (get-deps)
&gt;&gt;==&gt; riak\\_search (get-deps)
&gt;&gt;==&gt; rel (get-deps)
&gt;&gt;==&gt; riak-1.0.2 (get-deps)
&gt;&gt;./rebar compile
&gt;&gt;fatal: Not a git repository (or any of the parent directories): .git
&gt;&gt;fatal: Not a git repository (or any of the parent directories): .git
&gt;&gt;fatal: Not a git repository (or any of the parent directories): .git
&gt;&gt;==&gt; cluster\\_info (compile)
&gt;&gt;ERROR: OTP release R15B does not match required regex R13B04|R14
&gt;&gt;make: \\*\\*\\* [compile] Error 1
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt;riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;-- 
&gt;Sean Cribbs 
&gt;Software Engineer
&gt;Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt;http://basho.com/
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
