---
title: "Re: N val nad W - can write ever fail??"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-11-13T06:25:33-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg09297"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg09296"
author_name: "Jeremiah Peschka"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-11-13T06:25:33-08:00
---


You can use pr and pw to require reads and writes to hit primary vnodes. I 
suspect this makes it possible to fail writes in the way you are describing.

---
Jeremiah Peschka
Founder, Brent Ozar Unlimited

On Nov 13, 2012, at 12:51 AM, kamiseq  wrote:

&gt; yes, that was my conclusion thats why my question was 'it is possible to fail 
&gt; write'. 
&gt; in a simple scenario you can use R val to ensure that you have enough nodes 
&gt; to read from and riak will fail if you have less and this could be nice 
&gt; sometimes. my point was that you cannot fail write, riak will never complain.
&gt; 
&gt; anyway thanks for response
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; pozdrawiam
&gt; Paweł Kamiński
&gt; 
&gt; kami...@gmail.com
&gt; pkaminski....@gmail.com
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On 13 November 2012 00:21, Eric Redmond  wrote:
&gt;&gt; Pawel,
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; I think you've wandered into a real disconnect between how we communicate 
&gt;&gt; Riak replication, and how it actually works.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Although we say that N="nodes to replicate to", in reality, N="vnodes 
&gt;&gt; replicated to with every attempt to ensure they are different nodes with no 
&gt;&gt; guarantee". This is why you can have 3 nodes with 64 vnodes, and still set 
&gt;&gt; N&gt;3.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Now W is just the number of successful responses for a write to be 
&gt;&gt; considered a success. W can be any number less than or equal to N, but the 
&gt;&gt; difference will still be replicated as well, just asynchronously. For 
&gt;&gt; example, if N=3, W=2, once two nodes (well, vnodes) have responded, your 
&gt;&gt; write is considered a success. In the background, Riak will still ensure 
&gt;&gt; that third node is replicated to, giving you three total replicas.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Hope that helps,
&gt;&gt; Eric
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On Nov 12, 2012, at 3:01 PM, kamiseq  wrote:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; this is funny but recently I started to think again about how riak works 
&gt;&gt;&gt; and I thought I know more or less the basics ;]
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; but I start digging and again I read 
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://docs.basho.com/riak/latest/tutorials/fast-track/Tunable-CAP-Controls-in-Riak/
&gt;&gt;&gt; and then made few tests with riak bucket configured as follows
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; N = 3
&gt;&gt;&gt; W = 3
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; I have 2 nodes running in my cluster so far (only 2 are connected) for test 
&gt;&gt;&gt; and I can still write with hinted handoff. I updated the data and I wrote 
&gt;&gt;&gt; again with same key - I got success. 
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; I changed properties on per request basis and I set w=1 I stopped first 
&gt;&gt;&gt; node (so I had only one running) and put new key and value. I started first 
&gt;&gt;&gt; node and query for the key and I got data from both nodes. I did the same 
&gt;&gt;&gt; with new key again this time with w=3. and again it was successful.
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; what is the real difference between N and W. if hinted handoff always save 
&gt;&gt;&gt; data for later synchronisation can write ever fail. are there any 
&gt;&gt;&gt; differences between first write and later updates.
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; I hope it is not really stupid question
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; pozdrawiam
&gt;&gt;&gt; Paweł Kamiński
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; kami...@gmail.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; pkaminski....@gmail.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_

&gt;&gt; 
&gt; 
