---
title: "Re: Riak Search. Ranges. Integer Analyzer Factory."
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-08-21T03:14:20-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08335"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg08331"
author_name: "Vladimir Shapovalov"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-08-21T03:14:20-07:00
---


It's a little bit mixed up here. Sorry, my fault, there is two threads with
similar problems.

So the factory now is \\*standard\\_analyzer\\_factory\\*. I changed it, why It
didn't work with integer and whitespase (probably by my lacking of
understanding how it works). That means the values are just literals now.
And it work with this. I'm going to play with integer factory then.

Thanks for your help!
Vladimir


On Mon, Aug 20, 2012 at 6:42 PM, Ryan Zezeski  wrote:

&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Mon, Aug 20, 2012 at 12:29 PM, Vladimir Shapovalov &lt;
&gt; shapova...@gmail.com&gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi Ryan,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thank you, I didn't know that the data stays unchanged. Similar to 2i.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; While executing curl request I get this record in crash.log:
&gt;&gt; ------------------------------------------------------------------
&gt;&gt; 2012-08-20 18:12:22 =CRASH REPORT====
&gt;&gt; crasher:
&gt;&gt; initial call: mochiweb\\_acceptor:init/3
&gt;&gt; pid: &lt;0.138.0&gt;
&gt;&gt; registered\\_name: []
&gt;&gt; exception error: no case clause matching {ok,{http\\_error,"GET
&gt;&gt; /solr/my\\_index/select?q=price:[100 TO 200] HTTP/1.1\\r\\n"},&lt;&lt;&gt;&gt;}
&gt;&gt; in function mochiweb\\_http:request/3
&gt;&gt; in call from proc\\_lib:init\\_p\\_do\\_apply/3
&gt;&gt; ancestors: ['http\\_localhost:8098',riak\\_core\\_sup,&lt;0.105.0&gt;]
&gt;&gt; messages: []
&gt;&gt; links: [&lt;0.136.0&gt;,#Port&lt;0.6518&gt;]
&gt;&gt; dictionary: []
&gt;&gt; trap\\_exit: false
&gt;&gt; status: running
&gt;&gt; heap\\_size: 610
&gt;&gt; stack\\_size: 24
&gt;&gt; reductions: 533
&gt;&gt; neighbours:
&gt;&gt; ------------------------------------------------------------------
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt; You need to encode the url as you have illegal characters in there.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I've tried it on the command line with the no success:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; $: /usr/sbin/search-cmd search my\\_index "price:[100 TO 200]"
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt; You stored the field as `price\\_int` and you are querying `price`. Search
&gt; doesn't strip suffixes like 2i. It is just a convention for a dynamic
&gt; field. You could add an explicit `price` field with the integer analyzer
&gt; or you need to search against the `price\\_int` field.
&gt;
&gt; -Z
&gt;
