---
title: "Fw: Gem versions?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-11-27T09:48:25-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg09388"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg09384"
author_name: "Christopher Meiklejohn"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-11-27T09:48:25-08:00
---


Hi Martin, 

It appears we got off list, so I'm going to continue this there.

Can you please provide the version of bundler you are using and the lines from 
your Gemfile for both of these gems? One thing I'm noticing right now is that 
you have a dependency on riak-sessions 1.0.0.beta2, and the latest version of 
that gem is 1.0.0.beta.

- Chris 

-- 
Christopher Meiklejohn


Forwarded message:

&gt; From: Martin Streicher 
&gt; To: Christopher Meiklejohn 
&gt; Date: Monday, November 26, 2012 8:52:22 PM
&gt; Subject: Re: Gem versions?
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; The specific version was indeed set in the Gemfile, yet bundle install failed 
&gt; to find them. 
&gt; 
&gt; riak-sessions (1.0.0.beta2)
&gt; ripple (1.0.0.beta2)
&gt; 
&gt; I did not have the same issue with my laptop. I will try and get more info 
&gt; from my colleague. 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Nov 26, 2012, at 7:53 PM, Christopher Meiklejohn wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; &gt; Hi Martin, 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; Those gems are available via rubygems, but since they are pre-release gems 
&gt; &gt; they won't show up as the preferred version when navigating to the gem's 
&gt; &gt; page [1, 3]. If you scroll below, and follow the version links [2, 4] 
&gt; &gt; you'll see that those versions are available if you explicitly select them 
&gt; &gt; in your gemfile using the following:
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; gem 'gemname', 'version'
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; or by using the following command:
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; gem install 'gem name' --pre command.
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; The bundler/rubygems API won't negotiate a pre-release gem if you don't 
&gt; &gt; explicitly specify it in your gemfile.
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; [1] https://rubygems.org/gems/riak-sessions
&gt; &gt; [2] https://rubygems.org/gems/riak-sessions/versions/1.0.0.beta
&gt; &gt; [3] https://rubygems.org/gems/ripple
&gt; &gt; [4] https://rubygems.org/gems/ripple/versions/1.0.0.beta2
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; -- 
&gt; &gt; Christopher Meiklejohn
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; On Monday, November 26, 2012 at 7:43 PM, Martin Streicher wrote:
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; A project I am working on uses the 1.0.0.beta2 versions of Ripple and 
&gt; &gt; &gt; Riak-Sessions. I have those gems installed and the code works fine. 
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; A colleague installed my project today (via bundler) but could not find 
&gt; &gt; &gt; the gems on rubygems. Did these gem versions get deprecated? What are the 
&gt; &gt; &gt; latest versions?
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; Martin
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; &gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
&gt; &gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
