---
title: "Re: Informal survey about Python client API changes"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-07-24T08:29:53-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08045"
author_name: "Gordon Tillman"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-07-24T08:29:53-07:00
---


Sean we use the Python client extensively and I don't see anything in what you 
are proposing that will cause us any pain. :-)

--gordon


On Jul 24, 2012, at 08:53 , Sean Cribbs wrote:

&gt; Hey riak-users,
&gt; 
&gt; I've begun adding Riak 1.2-related features to the Python client. As I am 
&gt; doing so, I am reminded about how much technical debt exists in the client, 
&gt; as discussed at length previously on Github and this mailing list. Because I 
&gt; know some of you are using the client in production or as a component of 
&gt; another library, I'd like to assess what risks there are in removing or 
&gt; changing certain features. Here's my plan:
&gt; Remove all the set\\_r/get\\_r-style methods for quorums. Instead, RiakBucket 
&gt; will have custom object-properties for these that let you set the 
&gt; corresponding quorums in the bucket-properties, but will not be the sort of 
&gt; cascading-preference behavior that it is currently. If you want to change a 
&gt; quorum when fetching, storing, or deleting a key, you can pass it with 
&gt; keyword arguments to the appropriate method.
&gt; Remove the edge-case-ridden ConnectionManager for a pair of resource pools 
&gt; for each protocol, like what is available in the Ruby client. Access to a 
&gt; connection would be granted via a 'with' statement, naturally, and the 
&gt; protocol selected would be based on the stated preference of the user, or on 
&gt; whether the transport supports the given feature. For example, stats would 
&gt; always use HTTP. We could also take this opportunity to add error-sensitive 
&gt; host selection and automatic retries to the client.
&gt; Merge the RiakSearch class into the RiakClient class and push some of its 
&gt; functionality down into the connection classes.
&gt; I intend to make the Python client ready for the 1.2 release without these 
&gt; refactorings, but I would greatly appreciate your feedback before starting 
&gt; the above items.
&gt; 
&gt; -- 
&gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt; Software Engineer
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; http://basho.com/
&gt; 
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

