---
title: "Re: Issue in make all"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-01-09T09:03:07-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06182"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06181"
author_name: "Jared Morrow"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-01-09T09:03:07-08:00
---


Try cleaning out the directory with a 
'make clean distclean pkgclean'

The regex to set the supported erlang version is in the rebar.config file if 
you do want to change that.

And build again.

-Jared

On Jan 9, 2012, at 9:51 AM, suresh chandran wrote:

&gt; Also, I uninstalled the older Erlang and installed, 14B03 sing the below set 
&gt; of commands.
&gt; 
&gt; curl -O https://raw.github.com/spawngrid/kerl/master/kerl; chmod a+x kerl
&gt; 
&gt; ./kerl build R14B03 r14b03
&gt; ./kerl install r14b03 /opt/erlang/r14b03
&gt; 
&gt; . /opt/erlang/r14b03/activate
&gt; 
&gt; to resolve this version issue. I am not sure why it says the curent ERLANG 
&gt; version is 15B.
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks
&gt; Suresh Chandran
&gt; From: suresh chandran 
&gt; To: Sean Cribbs  
&gt; Cc: "riak-users@lists.basho.com"  
&gt; Sent: Monday, January 9, 2012 11:47 AM
&gt; Subject: Re: Issue in make all
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks Sean
&gt; 
&gt; I tried it. But it still reports the same issue. On other hand, is it picking 
&gt; the regex from somewhere else, cos' i dont see the regex to match r13b04 
&gt; which it says is supported.
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks
&gt; Suresh Chandran
&gt; 
&gt; From: Sean Cribbs 
&gt; To: suresh chandran  
&gt; Cc: "riak-users@lists.basho.com"  
&gt; Sent: Monday, January 9, 2012 10:09 AM
&gt; Subject: Re: Issue in make all
&gt; 
&gt; Suresh,
&gt; 
&gt; We do not officially support R15B yet, but you can try changing the regex in 
&gt; rebar.config to include R15.
&gt; 
&gt; {require\\_otp\\_vsn, "R14B0[234]|R15"}. 
&gt; 
&gt; The above should do the trick.
&gt; 
&gt; On Mon, Jan 9, 2012 at 9:58 AM, suresh chandran  wrote:
&gt; I am trying to install Riak in my macbook. I installed erlang using "sudo 
&gt; port install erlang +ssl" . When i do a "make all" in riak, i get the below 
&gt; error and it quits.
&gt; 
&gt; I am trying to install the source as mentioned 
&gt; http://wiki.basho.com/Building-a-Development-Environment.html. For some weird 
&gt; reason, when i install the tarball, i am not able to connect to 8091 and also 
&gt; I am not able to find the number of partitions. How do I configure the port 
&gt; where riak is running and the number of partitions in tarball? 
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks
&gt; Suresh Chandran
&gt; 
&gt; make all
&gt; fatal: Not a git repository (or any of the parent directories): .git
&gt; ./rebar get-deps
&gt; fatal: Not a git repository (or any of the parent directories): .git
&gt; fatal: Not a git repository (or any of the parent directories): .git
&gt; fatal: Not a git repository (or any of the parent directories): .git
&gt; ==&gt; cluster\\_info (get-deps)
&gt; ==&gt; skerl (get-deps)
&gt; ==&gt; lager (get-deps)
&gt; ==&gt; poolboy (get-deps)
&gt; ==&gt; protobuffs (get-deps)
&gt; ==&gt; basho\\_stats (get-deps)
&gt; ==&gt; riak\\_sysmon (get-deps)
&gt; ==&gt; mochiweb (get-deps)
&gt; ==&gt; webmachine (get-deps)
&gt; ==&gt; riak\\_core (get-deps)
&gt; ==&gt; riakc (get-deps)
&gt; ==&gt; luke (get-deps)
&gt; ==&gt; erlang\\_js (get-deps)
&gt; ==&gt; bitcask (get-deps)
&gt; ==&gt; merge\\_index (get-deps)
&gt; ==&gt; ebloom (get-deps)
&gt; ==&gt; eper (get-deps)
&gt; ==&gt; eleveldb (get-deps)
&gt; ==&gt; edown (get-deps)
&gt; ==&gt; sext (get-deps)
&gt; ==&gt; riak\\_pipe (get-deps)
&gt; ==&gt; basho\\_metrics (get-deps)
&gt; ==&gt; riak\\_kv (get-deps)
&gt; ==&gt; luwak (get-deps)
&gt; ==&gt; lucene\\_parser (get-deps)
&gt; ==&gt; riak\\_search (get-deps)
&gt; ==&gt; rel (get-deps)
&gt; ==&gt; riak-1.0.2 (get-deps)
&gt; ./rebar compile
&gt; fatal: Not a git repository (or any of the parent directories): .git
&gt; fatal: Not a git repository (or any of the parent directories): .git
&gt; fatal: Not a git repository (or any of the parent directories): .git
&gt; ==&gt; cluster\\_info (compile)
&gt; ERROR: OTP release R15B does not match required regex R13B04|R14
&gt; make: \\*\\*\\* [compile] Error 1
&gt; 
&gt; 
 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; -- 
&gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt; Software Engineer
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; http://basho.com/
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 

