---
title: "Re: Java HTTP Client running out of FD's"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-02-24T09:21:04-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg02444"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg02443"
author_name: "Abhishek Kona"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-02-24T09:21:04-08:00
---

On 24/02/11 10:21 PM, Russell Brown wrote:

Thanks for getting back to me.

On Thu, 2011-02-24 at 21:13 +0530, Abhishek Kona wrote:


I'm wondering if you're sharing the same RiakClient between all threads
or if each thread creates a RiakClient?


Each thread has a RiakClient.

RiakClient uses Apache HttpClient's MultiThreadedConnectionManager so
you could create a single RiakClient and share it among your threads
instead.

Could you provide me an example (sample code / test case ) for that?
In the ITestDataLoad.java file of the GitHub repo (http://goo.gl/Bu3gi), 
each thread seems to create a new RiakClient instead of sharing a single 
RiakClient, so am I missing something in following the same example.

I'm also wondering what your RiakConfig.setMaxConnections setting is?
(And which client version you have?)


This is not set, can I know what is the behavior in this case.

This is how many concurrent connections HttpClient can create. So for
your 64 threads you could create a RiakConfig with 
 riakConfig.setMaxConnections(64);

The client I am using is 0.9.1

The version you are using will limit the maximum connections per host to
2, you can get the latest from

http://github.com/basho/riak-java-client

Or if you need to stick with your current version you can pass an
HttpClient instance configured for 64 connections to your RiakConfig (eg
https://gist.github.com/842356)


Is it possible to see the test code, maybe?

I will try to post some snippets by tomorrow.

Cool, thanks. http://gist.github.com would be handy.

https://gist.github.com/842472
Here is a sample code, if you need more detail let me know. (there are a 
few internal libraries in use).

Also, just to sanity check, are you running against a Riak node on the
same box?


The riak node was on the same box.

http://wiki.basho.com/Open-Files-Limit.html says

"Riak can consume a large number of open file handles during normal
operation."

Since your client and server are on the same machine, have you used lsof
to check how many FDs Java (vs Riak itself) has and what state they are
in, especially if any are hanging around after your test code has run?


I do not have the lsof count. I will post it as soon as I run into the
same situation again.

Appreciate it.


Sorry for the barrage of questions.

Thanks to you for looking into this.

-Abhishek Kona

