---
title: "Re: Riak backups"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-06-28T08:37:07-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07825"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg07824"
author_name: "Shane McEwan"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-06-28T08:37:07-07:00
---

G'day!

I was about to ask this exact same question so I'll add my specific 
queries to the conversation, if I may.


In particular, we're using LevelDB and are considering filesystem 
snapshots and then syncing the snapshots off-site. But what happens if 
the snapshot is taken while LevelDB is in mid-write? Would LevelDB cope 
if that snapshot was restored as the live database?


Thanks!

On 28/06/12 14:15, cva...@yandex.by wrote:

Hello,
I've got one little question: what is the fastest and safest way to backup Riak 
cluster? Should I use riak-admin tool or pack base and it's config manually 
into tarball?

Thanks in advance,
nv.


--
Shane McEwan, Senior Systems Administrator, Actual Experience
Optimising the human experience of networked applications
A Queen Mary, University of London Spin-Out
The Tramshed, Beehive Yard, Walcot Street, Bath, BA1 5BB
O +44 845 838 0912 (Lorraine)
M +44 7733 295 808
F +44 845 074 2928
sh...@actual-experience.com
www.actual-experience.com
Registered Office: Actual Experience Ltd, 24 Cornhill, London, EC3V 3ND,
Registered No. 06838738, VAT No 971 9696 56

The information transmitted is intended only for the person or entity to 
which it is addressed and may contain confidential and/or privileged 
material. Any review, retransmission, dissemination or other use of, or 
taking of any action in reliance upon, this information by persons or 
entities other than the intended recipient is prohibited. If you 
received this in error, please contact the sender and delete the 
material from any computer. Although we routinely screen for viruses, 
addressees should check this e-mail and any attachment for viruses. We 
make no warranty as to absence of viruses in this e-mail or any attachments.
