---
title: "Re: PUT aborted by pre-commit hook"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-03-28T07:01:16-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07063"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06922"
author_name: "Sean Cribbs"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-03-28T07:01:16-07:00
---


Sebastian,

Replies inline:


&gt; Hello,
&gt; I am just starting out with Riak and want to use Pre-Commit Hooks to
&gt; automatically add links to keys in a different bucket. To give a
&gt; simple example, when I add '/bucket2/object2' I want to add a link to
&gt; the object in '/bucket1/object1' that points to the new object. I
&gt; would like to do this in javascript and would appreciate if someone
&gt; could help me get started. I could not find a single working example,
&gt; and have had difficulties in even getting the basics up and running.
&gt;
&gt; What I have done so far is:
&gt;
&gt; - Changed the js\\_source\\_dir directory to './js\\_source'
&gt; - In js\\_source, I added a file 'validate.js':
&gt;
&gt; var validateFunctions = {
&gt; validate: function(v) {
&gt; return v;
&gt; }
&gt; };
&gt;
&gt; module.exports = {'name': validateFunctions }
&gt;
&gt;
Riak's JS engine doesn't use CommonJS modules, so whatever you define in
the global namespace will be visible. module.exports will probably cause an
evaluation error.


&gt; - I created a new bucket as such:
&gt;
&gt; curl -v -X PUT -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{"props":
&gt; {"precommit": [{"name": "validate"}]}}'
&gt; http://127.0.0.1:8098/buckets/javascript/props
&gt;
&gt;
Because it's in the global namespace, you should refer to it like so:
{"name":"validationFunctions.validate","language":"javascript"}


&gt; - I added a new key to this bucket:
&gt;
&gt; curl -v -X PUT -d '{"bar":"baz"}' -H "Content-Type: application/json"
&gt; -H "X-Riak-Vclock: a85hYGBgzGDKBVIszMk55zKYEhnzWBlKIniO8mUBAA=="
&gt; http://127.0.0.1:8098/riak/javascript/doc?returnbody=true
&gt;
&gt; This results in a 403 "PUT aborted by pre-commit hook" failure.
&gt;
&gt;
Because of the namespacing issue, the error was probably a function
dispatch problem.


&gt; Aside from the obvious "how do I get it to work?" question, I would like
&gt; to know
&gt; 1) if there is a working example on the web or a tutorial that shows
&gt; all the required steps (the Basho Commit Hooks tutorial does not
&gt; actually show how to enable these hooks)
&gt;

Unfortunately, no. That's something we should address soon.


&gt; 2) if I need to do anything when I change my Javascript files (restart
&gt; server, re-initialize my buckets, ..)
&gt;

You can run `riak-admin js\\_reload` to reload your JS files that are in the
js\\_source\\_dir.


&gt; 3) if there is a naming convention that I need to follow for my \\*.js files
&gt;

All \\*.js files from the js\\_source\\_dir (non-recursive) will be read and
evaluated on startup.


&gt; 4) how to process links in Javascript
&gt;
&gt;
The format of the object is the same as in MapReduce, so refer to that
first:

http://wiki.basho.com/MapReduce.html#Phase-functions

Basically, "Links" will be an entry in the metadata sub-object. IIRC each
link is an object with keys "bucket","key","tag".


&gt; So far, I have a a great experience getting to know Riak, but the
&gt; limited documentation really hinders my progress :)
&gt;
&gt;
Sorry for that! I understand we'll be improving the experience a lot over
the next quarter.


&gt; Thanks,
&gt; Sebastian
&gt;

Cheers,

-- 
Sean Cribbs 
Software Engineer
Basho Technologies, Inc.
http://basho.com/
