---
title: "Re: Social network data / Graph properties of Riak"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-11-18T10:04:11-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05667"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg05657"
author_name: "Aphyr"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-11-18T10:04:11-08:00
---


Depending on whether you think it will be more efficient to store the 
graph or its dual, consider each node a vertex and write the adjacency 
list as a part of its data. You can store whatever weights, etc. you 
need on the edges there.


Don't use links; they're just a thin layer on top of mapreduce, so 
there's really not much advantage to using them. Links are subject to 
the HTTP header lengths too, so storing more than a thousand on any node 
is likely to break down.


--Kyle

On 11/18/2011 07:38 AM, Jeroen van Dijk wrote:

Hi all,

I'm currently evaluating whether Riak would fit as the main storage of
my current project, a social network. The reason I am attracted to Riak
and less to a Graph database as main storage is that I want the easy
horizontal scalability and multi-site replication that Riak provides.
The only thing I doubt is whether the key-value/link model of Riak is
flexible enough to be able to store a property graph
(http://arxiv.org/abs/1006.2361). I am not asking whether the
querying/graph traversing will be easy; I'm probably going to use a
graph database or a Pregel like platform (e.g.
http://www.goldenorbos.org/) for that problem. I guess my main question
is whether it would be easy/feasible to import and export a property
graph in and from Riak? Has someone done this before?

I realize the above might be too specific, so here are two more
questions that I think are relevant:

- Is there a known upper limit of links that can be stored (I don't want
to add them all at once so 1000 per request is fine,
http://lists.basho.com/pipermail/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com/2010-March/000786.html)
- Is there a way to add meta data to links (edges)? E.g. weigths and
other attributes.

Any other ideas or advise are also highly appreciated.

Cheers,

Jeroen
