---
title: "Re: Absolute consistency"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-01-05T12:29:21-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06139"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06138"
author_name: "Aphyr"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-01-05T12:29:21-08:00
---

On 01/05/2012 12:12 PM, Tim Robinson wrote:

Thank you for this info. I'm still somewhat confused.

Why would anyone ever want 2 copies on one physical PC? Correct me if
I am wrong, but part of the sales pitch for Riak is that the cost of
hardware is lessened by distributing your data across a cluster of
less expensive machines as opposed to having it all one reside on an
enormous server with very little redundancy.

The 2 copies of data on one physical PC provides no redundancy, but
increases hardware costs quite a bit.

Right?


Because in the case you expressed shock over, the pigeonhole
principle makes it \\*impossible\\* to store three copies of information in
two places without overlap. The alternative is lying to you about the
replica semantics. That would be bad.

In the second case I described, it's an artifact of a simplistic but 
correct vnode sharding algorithm which uses the partion ID modulo node 
count to assign the node for each partition. When N is not a multiple of 
n, the last and the first (or second, etc, you do the math) partitions 
can wind up on the same node. If you don't use even multiples of n/N, 
the proportion of data that does overlap on one node is on the order of 
1/64 to 1/1024 of the keyspace. This is not a significant operational cost.


This \\*does\\* reduce fault tolerance: losing those two "special" nodes 
(but not two arbitrary nodes) can destroy those special keys even though 
they were stored with N=3. As the probability of losing two \\*particular\\* 
nodes simultaneously compares favorably with the probability of losing 
\\*any three\\* nodes simultaneously, I haven't been that concerned over it. 
It takes roughly six hours for me to allocate a new machine and restore 
the destroyed node's backup to it. Anecdotally, I think you're more 
likely to see \\*cluster\\* failure than \\*dual node\\* failure in a small 
distributed system, but that's a long story.


The riak team has been aware of this since at least Jun 2010 
(https://issues.basho.com/show\\_bug.cgi?id=228), and there are 
operational workarounds involving target\\_n\\_val. As I understand it, 
solving the key distribution problem is... nontrivial.


--Kyle

