---
title: "Re: Issues with Riak Control"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-03-22T10:57:05-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07025"
author_name: "Armon Dadgar"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-03-22T10:57:05-07:00
---


I've seen this happening as well, it seems to have something to do with some 
assets 
not being fully loaded. On very slow connections (e.g. tethered over a phone),
I constantly get redirected to the pjax pages.

Best Regards,

Armon Dadgar

&gt; Message: 10
&gt; Date: Thu, 22 Mar 2012 09:28:08 -0600
&gt; From: Jeffrey Massung 
&gt; To: char...@contentomni.com (mailto:char...@contentomni.com)
&gt; Cc: riak-users  (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)&gt;
&gt; Subject: Re: Issues with Riak Control
&gt; Message-ID: &lt;481dc86e-1692-48e8-98a3-11dba4cc9...@basho.com 
&gt; (mailto:481dc86e-1692-48e8-98a3-11dba4cc9...@basho.com)&gt;
&gt; Content-Type: text/plain; charset="us-ascii"
&gt; 
&gt; Charles, I've emailed you off-list with a whole set of things to test. We 
&gt; have an idea what the problem might be. For posterity, once a solution is 
&gt; arrived at, I'll post it back to the mailing list.
&gt; 
&gt; --
&gt; Jeffrey Massung
&gt; Software Engineer
&gt; j...@basho.com (mailto:j...@basho.com)
&gt; 
&gt; On Mar 21, 2012, at 9:13 PM, char...@contentomni.com 
&gt; (mailto:char...@contentomni.com) wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; &gt; Yes, it does return the css file.
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; The way I've setup my cluster is that I am using my private ip address 
&gt; &gt; (remember I'm using Rackspace Cloud Servers) for my riak\\_core-&gt;http setting 
&gt; &gt; in app.config, and I am using my public ip address for the riak\\_core-&gt;https 
&gt; &gt; setting.
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; Everything is working ok on the cluster, everything looks ok from 
&gt; &gt; riak-admin status. I just have the problem with riak control.
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; -----Original Message-----
&gt; &gt; From: "Jeffrey Massung" 
&gt; &gt; Sent: Wednesday, 21 March, 2012 11:59pm
&gt; &gt; To: char...@contentomni.com (mailto:char...@contentomni.com)
&gt; &gt; Cc: "riak-users"  &gt; (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)&gt;
&gt; &gt; Subject: Re: Issues with Riak Control
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; Charles,
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; A quick test... on the command prompt, does the following return the CSS 
&gt; &gt; file?
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; curl -k https://user:pass@localhost:8069/admin/ui/style.css
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; Note: change the credentials, ip, and port appropriately for your cluster 
&gt; &gt; setup. I'll look at something else for the URL redirection to the template 
&gt; &gt; folder - that shouldn't be happening (obviously).
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; --
&gt; &gt; Jeffrey Massung
&gt; &gt; Software Engineer
&gt; &gt; j...@basho.com (mailto:j...@basho.com)
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; On Mar 21, 2012, at 4:32 PM, char...@contentomni.com 
&gt; &gt; (mailto:char...@contentomni.com) wrote:
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; I tried Firefox 9, Safari 5, and the latest Chrome. I would hardly 
&gt; &gt; &gt; consider these old browsers. 
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; -----Original Message-----
&gt; &gt; &gt; From: "Jeffrey Massung" 
&gt; &gt; &gt; Sent: Wednesday, 21 March, 2012 11:22pm
&gt; &gt; &gt; To: char...@contentomni.com (mailto:char...@contentomni.com)
&gt; &gt; &gt; Cc: "riak-users"  &gt; &gt; (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)&gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; Subject: Re: Issues with Riak Control
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; This is very much the behavior of older browsers not loading the CSS 
&gt; &gt; &gt; properly and displaying it. IE7, old versions of FireFox, etc. Have you 
&gt; &gt; &gt; tried Chrome, Safari, a latest FireFox, IE8+, etc?
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; --
&gt; &gt; &gt; Jeffrey Massung
&gt; &gt; &gt; Software Engineer
&gt; &gt; &gt; j...@basho.com (mailto:j...@basho.com)
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; On Mar 21, 2012, at 4:09 PM, char...@contentomni.com 
&gt; &gt; &gt; (mailto:char...@contentomni.com) wrote:
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; I recently installed a Riak (1.1.1) Cluster on Rackspace Cloud Servers. 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; Everything seems to be working ok.
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; I set up the configuration to enable Riak Control. However, I am having 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; a few issues using it.
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; As soon as I login in it shows me the home page briefly and then it 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; just displays the following in only text:
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; Current Snapshot...
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; Your cluster is healthy.
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; You currently have...
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; 0 Unreachable nodes
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; 0 Nodes marked as 'down'
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; 0 Nodes experiencing low memory
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; Nothing to worry about because Riak is your friend
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; Your cluster has problems.
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; The following nodes are currently unreachable:
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; The following nodes are currently marked as 'down':
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; The following nodes are currently experiencing low memory:
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; The URL has also changed from https://:8069/admin/ui/index.html 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; to https://:8069/admin/ui/templates/snapshot.pjax. It's like 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; it's forcing some kind of redirection and I don't know why.
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; Kindly assist,
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; Charles.
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; -------------- next part --------------
&gt; An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
&gt; URL: 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; ------------------------------
&gt; 
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; End of riak-users Digest, Vol 32, Issue 40
&gt; \\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*\\*
&gt; 
&gt; 
