---
title: "Re: Adding a new machine to a three node cluster cause partition	handoff problems"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-01-10T10:26:36-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06215"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06213"
author_name: "Joseph Blomstedt"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-01-10T10:26:36-08:00
---


&gt; There's a code snippet in riak 1.0.1 or 1.0.2 release notes which addresses 
&gt; this. Sorry can't find it for you, network here is useless. :(

The code snippet in the release notes deals with a different issue.
The case where Riak believes all handoff has already occurred, but
refuses to actually change partition ownership. This case is easily
determined by seeing cases of "Waiting on: []" in 'riak-admin
ring\\_status'. In other words, waiting on the empty-set, on nothing.

The issue reported here is different. Ring status shows 'Waiting on:
[riak\\_kv\\_vnode]'. This is an issue with the kv-vnode not triggering
handoff. The solutions outlined above should work for this simpler
case.

For the curious, or those that ever run into the 'Waiting on: []"
issue, the snippet Kyle mentioned can be found in the "Ownership
Handoff Stall" section here:
https://github.com/basho/riak/blob/1.0.2-release/RELEASE-NOTES.org

-Joe

On Tue, Jan 10, 2012 at 9:40 AM, Aphyr  wrote:
&gt; There's a code snippet in riak 1.0.1 or 1.0.2 release notes which addresses 
&gt; this. Sorry can't find it for you, network here is useless. :(
&gt;
&gt; Ivaylo Panitchkov  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;Hello All,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;We have a cluster of three machines (Debian 6.0, 4GB RAM,
&gt;&gt;riak\\_1.0.2-1\\_amd64.deb, n\\_val: 3) that serves an application for a
&gt;&gt;while. As we go to production soon added a fourth machine to the cluster
&gt;&gt;(exactly the same as the first three) yesterday. The partition handoff
&gt;&gt;began in the late afternoon and I had an impression that the transition
&gt;&gt;will not take too long as there are only few hundred IMPORTANT records
&gt;&gt;in the storage for the moment. Today in the morning checked the
&gt;&gt;situation again and realized the partition handoff still runs (or get
&gt;&gt;stuck). The Ownership Handoff is still the same since yesterday (at
&gt;&gt;least 19 hours till now). Any suggestions to fix the problem are welcome :-)
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;REMARK: Replaced the IP addresses for security sake
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;# riak-admin ringready
&gt;&gt;Attempting to restart script through sudo -u riak
&gt;&gt;TRUE All nodes agree on the ring
&gt;&gt;['r...@yyy.yyy.yyy.yyy','r...@xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx','r...@aaa.aaa.aaa.aaa','r...@bbb.bbb.bbb.bbb']
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;# riak-admin transfers
&gt;&gt;Attempting to restart script through sudo -u riak
&gt;&gt;'r...@bbb.bbb.bbb.bbb' waiting to handoff 2 partitions
&gt;&gt;'r...@aaa.aaa.aaa.aaa' waiting to handoff 2 partitions
&gt;&gt;'r...@yyy.yyy.yyy.yyy' waiting to handoff 2 partitions
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;# riak-admin ring\\_status
&gt;&gt;Attempting to restart script through sudo -u riak
&gt;&gt;================================== Claimant
&gt;&gt;===================================
&gt;&gt;Claimant: 'r...@xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx'
&gt;&gt;Status: up
&gt;&gt;Ring Ready: true
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;============================== Ownership Handoff
&gt;&gt;==============================
&gt;&gt;Owner: r...@xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx
&gt;&gt;Next Owner: r...@yyy.yyy.yyy.yyy
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;Index: 548063113999088594326381812268606132370974703616
&gt;&gt;Waiting on: [riak\\_kv\\_vnode]
&gt;&gt;Complete: [riak\\_pipe\\_vnode]
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;Index: 1370157784997721485815954530671515330927436759040
&gt;&gt;Waiting on: [riak\\_kv\\_vnode]
&gt;&gt;Complete: [riak\\_pipe\\_vnode]
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;============================== Unreachable Nodes
&gt;&gt;==============================
&gt;&gt;All nodes are up and reachable
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;# riak-admin member\\_status
&gt;&gt;Attempting to restart script through sudo -u riak
&gt;&gt;================================= Membership
&gt;&gt;==================================
&gt;&gt;Status Ring Pending Node
&gt;&gt;-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
&gt;&gt;valid 21.9% 25.0% 'r...@yyy.yyy.yyy.yyy'
&gt;&gt;valid 28.1% 25.0% 'r...@xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx'
&gt;&gt;valid 25.0% 25.0% 'r...@aaa.aaa.aaa.aaa'
&gt;&gt;valid 25.0% 25.0% 'r...@bbb.bbb.bbb.bbb'
&gt;&gt;-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
&gt;&gt;Valid:4 / Leaving:0 / Exiting:0 / Joining:0 / Down:0
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;--
&gt;&gt;Ivaylo Panitchkov
&gt;&gt;Software developer
&gt;&gt;Hibernum Creations Inc.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;Ce courriel est confidentiel et peut aussi être protégé par la loi.Si vous 
&gt;&gt;avez reçu ce courriel par erreur, veuillez nous en aviser immédiatement en y 
&gt;&gt;répondant, puis supprimer ce message de votre système. Veuillez ne pas le 
&gt;&gt;copier, l’utiliser pour quelque raison que ce soit ni divulguer son contenu à 
&gt;&gt;quiconque.
&gt;&gt;This email is confidential and may also be legally privileged. If you have 
&gt;&gt;received this email in error, please notify us immediately by reply email and 
&gt;&gt;then delete this message from your system. Please do not copy it or use it 
&gt;&gt;for any purpose or disclose its content.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt;riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;

-- 
Joseph Blomstedt 
Software Engineer
Basho Technologies, Inc.
http://www.basho.com/

