---
title: "Re: Riak Search. Ranges. Integer Analyzer Factory."
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-08-20T09:29:43-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg08330"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg08326"
author_name: "Vladimir Shapovalov"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-08-20T09:29:43-07:00
---


Hi Ryan,

Thank you, I didn't know that the data stays unchanged. Similar to 2i.

While executing curl request I get this record in crash.log:
------------------------------------------------------------------
2012-08-20 18:12:22 =CRASH REPORT====
 crasher:
 initial call: mochiweb\\_acceptor:init/3
 pid: &lt;0.138.0&gt;
 registered\\_name: []
 exception error: no case clause matching {ok,{http\\_error,"GET
/solr/my\\_index/select?q=price:[100 TO 200] HTTP/1.1\\r\\n"},&lt;&lt;&gt;&gt;}
 in function mochiweb\\_http:request/3
 in call from proc\\_lib:init\\_p\\_do\\_apply/3
 ancestors: ['http\\_localhost:8098',riak\\_core\\_sup,&lt;0.105.0&gt;]
 messages: []
 links: [&lt;0.136.0&gt;,#Port&lt;0.6518&gt;]
 dictionary: []
 trap\\_exit: false
 status: running
 heap\\_size: 610
 stack\\_size: 24
 reductions: 533
 neighbours:
------------------------------------------------------------------


I've tried it on the command line with the no success:

$: /usr/sbin/search-cmd search my\\_index "price:[100 TO 200]"

In this case I'm getting only usage help from search-cmd tool. It looks the
syntax is wrong. But I followed the docu:
http://wiki.basho.com/Riak-Search---Querying.html#Range-Searches.

Please correct me, what I'm doing wrong?

Thanks
Vladimir

On Mon, Aug 20, 2012 at 4:25 PM, Ryan Zezeski  wrote:

&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Mon, Aug 20, 2012 at 4:22 AM, Vladimir Shapovalov  &gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi Alexander,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; thanks for prompt reply.
&gt;&gt; Didn't work...
&gt;&gt; And the strings aren't padded in my case. I still have 100 or 200 as
&gt;&gt; values after insert.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks
&gt;&gt; Vladimir
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt; Vladimir,
&gt;
&gt; Alexander is correct. The integers are turned into binaries and 0 padded
&gt; (with a default width of 10). Note that the data itself is not padded,
&gt; only the index entry. The reason your queries aren't working is because
&gt; you didn't url encode. Also, you'll want to use single quotes around that
&gt; url to avoid the shell interpreting the &.
&gt;
&gt; -Z
&gt;
