---
title: "Re: Riak backups"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-06-28T08:48:42-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07826"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg07825"
author_name: "Guido Medina"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-06-28T08:48:42-07:00
---

Hi,

If I might add up to it, I would like to know specifically what would be 
a proper way to have a replication site of a cluster, it seems to me it 
is easier to backup the replicated site than the cluster itself.


We replicate using a Java scheduled job but it requires us to mark each 
key with an specific index (lets say; the version of the key), so we 
know what version we were left at on the previous copy and then we 
continue where we were before to the current-1 version.


If we could replicate the cluster in a sort of a site-to-site 
replication, increasingly, then I would think it will be the perfect 
solution as it will be way easier to backup from the replicated site.


Guido.

On 28/06/12 16:37, Shane McEwan wrote:

G'day!

I was about to ask this exact same question so I'll add my specific 
queries to the conversation, if I may.


In particular, we're using LevelDB and are considering filesystem 
snapshots and then syncing the snapshots off-site. But what happens if 
the snapshot is taken while LevelDB is in mid-write? Would LevelDB 
cope if that snapshot was restored as the live database?


Thanks!

On 28/06/12 14:15, cva...@yandex.by wrote:

Hello,
I've got one little question: what is the fastest and safest way to 
backup Riak cluster? Should I use riak-admin tool or pack base and 
it's config manually into tarball?


Thanks in advance,
nv.
