---
title: "Rspec Spec"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-12-06T02:01:38-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05864"
author_name: "Yehuda Zargrov"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-12-06T02:01:38-08:00
---


Hi,

I'm trying to run some (empty at first stage) tests..

This is my spec file:

require 'spec\\_helper'

describe AnalyticsController do
 describe "generate\\_keys" do

 it "should generate one key" do

 end

 it "should add a {key, value} pair" do

 end
 end

end

and this is my configure block in the spec\\_helper:

 RSpec.configure do |config|

 require 'database\\_cleaner'

 config.before(:all) { Ripple::TestServer.setup }

 config.after(:each){ Ripple::TestServer.clear }

 config.mock\\_with :rspec

 end

I get this error:
Failure/Error: Unable to find matching line from backtrace
 ArgumentError:
 Could not find or open pipes for Riak console in 
/home/yehuda/air/tmp/riak\\_test\\_server/pipe.

Any Ideas?
And by the way, does RSpect uses local riak to run the tests? Or does it run an 
in-memory riak for that purpose?

Thanks,


[cid:image001.gif@01CCB40E.9C5045B0]

Yehuda Zargrov
Software Engineer
Conduit Your Site 
t: 972.8.9461713 ext +314 | m: +972503473119 | f: +97286382140


This message may contain confidential and/or privileged information. It is 
intended to be read only by the individual or entity to whom it is addressed or 
by their designee.
If the reader of this message is not the intended recipient, you are on notice 
that any uses, copy, disclose or distribution of this message, in any form, is 
strictly prohibited.
If you have received this message in error, please notify the sender by reply 
email or by telephone and delete or destroy any copy of this message. Thank you.

&lt;&gt;

