---
title: "Re: Structured data"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-08-03T17:38:18-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg00838"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg00837"
author_name: "James Sadler"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-08-03T17:38:18-07:00
---


On 4 August 2010 10:30, Kevin Smith  wrote:
&gt;
&gt; On Aug 3, 2010, at 8:10 PM, James Sadler wrote:
&gt;
&gt; 
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;  I'm talking about creating something new
&gt;&gt; here, on top of riak\\_core. My questions are about the feasibility of
&gt;&gt; whether I could extend riak\\_core to be able to handle these
&gt;&gt; situations.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; 

Hi Kevin,

Thanks, that's now a lot clearer. I'm really looking forward to the
articles on building apps with riak\\_core. In the meantime, I'll study
the code and brush up on my Erlang.

Cheers,

James.

&gt;
&gt; If you are truly considering doing this then it is entirely feasible. 
&gt; riak\\_core contains the components Riak uses to coordinate its distributed 
&gt; processing and nothing else. It's better to think of riak\\_core as a toolkit 
&gt; than a framework. There are still a number of items you have to write 
&gt; yourself in order to get a functioning datastore including but not limited to:
&gt;
&gt; \\* Persistence -- either reuse an existing Riak backend, like bitcask, or roll 
&gt; your own. This goes hand-in-hand with writing your own vnodes, too.
&gt; \\* Sibling values -- Riak's object merging logic is specific to the key/value 
&gt; store so you'd need to roll your own
&gt; \\* Hinted handoff protocol -- riak\\_core provides the hooks, in the form of 
&gt; callback functions, for handoff processing.
&gt; \\* Client APIs -- both the HTTP and protocol buffers interfaces are part of 
&gt; key/value not core
&gt; \\* Fetching/storing/querying -- For now all of this logic is tied to the 
&gt; operation of the key/value store. You'll need to write your own replacements. 
&gt; See riak\\_kv\\_get\\_fsm, riak\\_kv\\_put\\_fsm for examples of the kind of code 
&gt; necessary.
&gt;
&gt; I hope this helps clarify what's required to build a system on top of 
&gt; riak\\_core.
&gt;
&gt; --Kevin

-- 
James

