---
title: "Re: [ANN] Riaknostic, your Riak Doctor"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-03-02T17:27:18-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06852"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg05978"
author_name: "Matthew Tovbin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-03-02T17:27:18-08:00
---


Hi Sean,

Seems like a nice tool, but it's nice to have more examples on the homepage.

Because currently I've a problem understanding if the tool is working at
all: no connected nodes info is printed.
See below. Similar happens with other diag commands, such as 'diag disk',
'diag dumps' etc.

#~/riak/bin/riak-admin diag nodes\\_connected --level debug
17:22:50.885 [debug] Lager installed handler lager\\_console\\_backend into
lager\\_event
17:22:50.899 [debug] Lager installed handler error\\_logger\\_lager\\_h into
error\\_logger
17:22:50.900 [info] Application lager started on node nonode@nohost
17:22:50.990 [debug] Not connected to the local Riak node, trying to
connect. alive:false connect\\_failed:undefined
17:22:50.991 [debug] Starting distributed Erlang.
17:22:50.994 [debug] Supervisor net\\_sup started erl\\_epmd:start\\_link() at
pid &lt;0.42.0&gt;
17:22:50.996 [debug] Supervisor net\\_sup started auth:start\\_link() at pid
&lt;0.43.0&gt;
17:22:50.999 [debug] Supervisor net\\_sup started
net\\_kernel:start\\_link(['riak\\_diag22848@riak1',longnames]) at pid &lt;0.44.0&gt;
17:22:50.999 [debug] Supervisor kernel\\_sup started
erl\\_distribution:start\\_link(['riak\\_diag22848@riak1',longnames]) at pid
&lt;0.41.0&gt;
17:22:50.999 [debug] Supervisor inet\\_gethost\\_native\\_sup started undefined
at pid &lt;0.49.0&gt;
17:22:50.999 [debug] Supervisor kernel\\_safe\\_sup started
inet\\_gethost\\_native:start\\_link() at pid &lt;0.48.0&gt;
17:22:51.014 [debug] Connected to local Riak node 'riak@riak1'.
17:22:51.014 [debug] Fetching local riak\\_kv\\_status.
17:22:51.014 [debug] Local RPC: riak\\_kv\\_status:statistics([]) [5000]


-Matthew

On Fri, Dec 16, 2011 at 15:03, Sean Cribbs  wrote:

&gt; Hey Riak users,
&gt;
&gt; You may have noticed on the Basho Blog yesterday that we made public our
&gt; tool called "Riaknostic" (http://riaknostic.basho.com/). It's a
&gt; collection of short diagnostics, wrapped up in an escript, that can detect
&gt; some common problems you might have with your Riak node or cluster and
&gt; suggest ways to fix them. It's all part of some of the usability
&gt; improvements were baking into the next release of Riak.
&gt;
&gt; The reason I'm announcing this again on the mailing list is that we're
&gt; looking for contributions from the community. Contribute a diagnostic, find
&gt; and fix a bug, improve the documentation, and we'll send you some Basho
&gt; swag to call your very own! (including but not limited to t-shirts and
&gt; stickers) If you want to write a diagnostic but don't know what might be
&gt; useful, here's some ideas (all of which we plan to implement, so beat us to
&gt; them!):
&gt;
&gt; \\* Make sure that Bitcask merging thresholds are less than or equal to the
&gt; triggers
&gt; \\* Check whether swap is enabled, recommend that it be turned off
&gt; \\* Compare configurations across the cluster, make sure various components
&gt; are configured the same way
&gt; \\* Check the number of open files owned by the Riak process and the
&gt; open-file-handles limit
&gt;
&gt; Most of what you need to know is defined in the edocs:
&gt; http://riaknostic.basho.com/edoc/index.html. Make sure to read the top of
&gt; the "riaknostic\\_check" module documentation. Happy hacking!
&gt; --
&gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt; Developer Advocate
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; http://www.basho.com/
&gt;
&gt;

