---
title: "Re: riak-search Benchmar.k"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-11-05T05:56:43-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01474"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg01473"
author_name: "Pablo Borges"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-11-05T05:56:43-07:00
---


That query actually maps to all my documents. Simple query is much faster


-

0
305
-

on
0
olho:political
or
value
standard
1.1
43516



On Fri, Nov 5, 2010 at 10:51 AM, Pablo Borges  wrote:

&gt; Due to disk space constraints I had to move to 5 node cluster anyway. I'm
&gt; uploading a compressed 6GB json file. I'm not sure the actual datasize, but
&gt; is should be about 10 ~ 12 times that (By the time I've reached 1.3mi docs,
&gt; the disk usage was around 23GB)
&gt;
&gt; I restarted the test and now I'm with 2mi docs.
&gt;
&gt; The upload speed is a constant 75 docs/s.
&gt;
&gt; Query response doesn't look too good now, but then again I didn't do any
&gt; tuning. I wanted some numbers how it would perform out-of-the-box.
&gt;
&gt; 
&gt; -
&gt; 
&gt; 0
&gt; 37021
&gt; -
&gt; 
&gt; on
&gt; 0
&gt; publicado:SIM
&gt; or
&gt; value
&gt; standard
&gt; 1.1
&gt; 2017736
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Fri, Nov 5, 2010 at 5:51 AM, Prometheus WillSurvive &lt;
&gt; prometheus.willsurv...@gmail.com&gt; wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi Pablo,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Thanks for your reply. I am looking forward to your results. Please also
&gt;&gt; add the data size details. We have customers that dealing with web scale
&gt;&gt; data size ( billion docs) so I am looking riaksearch whether it is fast
&gt;&gt; enough and feature ready to this job. We want all queries should be below
&gt;&gt; 900 ms ..
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I will also make other tests and will be publis in this wiki..
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Regards
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Prometheus
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Nov 5, 2010, at 3:06 AM, Pablo Borges wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I haven't used your data, but I'm trying to benchmark riak search against
&gt;&gt; solr.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; For my test, I'm using each paragraph in the english version of wikipedia
&gt;&gt; as a document as well as some sequential and random data in a couple of
&gt;&gt; fields to reflect our current usage (which is a CMS). That's about 22
&gt;&gt; million documents. My initial test is using just one machine to load it all,
&gt;&gt; but in the next couple of days, I'll be using a 5 node Dell R610 with 24GB
&gt;&gt; RAM and SSD drives to see how well it will perform against solr, which will
&gt;&gt; be using the same machines.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Right now, I'm looking into stats information to plot graphs (we use
&gt;&gt; cacti). So far, I've been using a few numbers from /stats page (and trying
&gt;&gt; to figure out what they mean. lol).
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; The only numbers I've got so far is that I was able to index about 1
&gt;&gt; million documents at a rate of 65 documents/s while the solr interface works
&gt;&gt; pretty fast and the load on the machine seems to be steady (around 2.5).
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; I'd really like some real world input to build the graphs, and when I'm
&gt;&gt; done, I'm gonna post them on the wiki. :D
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Cheers,
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Thu, Nov 4, 2010 at 2:13 PM, Prometheus WillSurvive &lt;
&gt;&gt; prometheus.willsurv...@gmail.com&gt; wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Hi Guys,
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Week ago I put data ready to index riaksearch via solr interface in the
&gt;&gt;&gt; rapidshare to make it available to community.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; I would love to get some benchmark resuts from you guys. Is there
&gt;&gt;&gt; anybody test it ?
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Prometheus..
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

