---
title: "Re: Problem installing Riak Python client"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-11-10T19:14:03-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05548"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg05547"
author_name: "Greg Stein"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-11-10T19:14:03-08:00
---


On Nov 10, 2011 4:26 PM, "Nate Lawson"  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Nov 10, 2011, at 4:04 PM, Greg Stein wrote:
&gt;
&gt; &gt; On Thu, Nov 10, 2011 at 11:51, Nate Lawson  wrote:
&gt; &gt;&gt; ...
&gt; &gt;&gt; BTW, are there any plans for the Riak python client to use the
protobuf C library directly via ctypes? The pure python implementation of
protobuf seems a little slow.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Not that I've seen. I plan to use the HTTP interface because I can
&gt; &gt; encrypt it, and I can avoid MitM attacks. That isn't possible with the
&gt; &gt; protobuf interface. I think you'll need to find somebody that deploys
&gt; &gt; heavy use of the protobuf interface to be interested enough to improve
&gt; &gt; its speed.
&gt;
&gt; There should be an SSL option for Riak with protobufs, perhaps on an
alternate port. No reason to go to http just to get SSL.

Certainly, but I haven't heard anyone thinking of that either.

Unless/until somebody codes that up, then I'm sticking to HTTP(S).

&gt; &gt; Note that I've sped up the Python HTTP transport. It is definitely
&gt; &gt; faster (via persistent connections), but I haven't done a comparison
&gt; &gt; against protobufs yet. Basho has a benchmarking tool that I might try.
&gt;
&gt; I wonder if gzip encoding would also help for larger keys/values?

It absolutely would. It is generally faster to compress/decompress than the
time spent to transfer the extra bytes on the wire.

I dunno Erlang, but I could certainly fix the Python client to deal with
potential compression.

Cheers,
-g
