---
title: "Re: Riak n00b questions"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-03-14T08:48:52-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg02636"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg02633"
author_name: "Eric Moritz"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-03-14T08:48:52-07:00
---


Here's a quick example of the map-highs-by-month query in the Riak Fast
Track:

http://pastebin.com/FGieAFVy

Check out this link to get the goog.csv file that is used in that query:

http://wiki.basho.com/Loading-Data-and-Running-MapReduce-Queries.html

Take a glance over the README for the Riak python client:

https://github.com/basho/riak-python-client

Let me know if you need more help,

Eric.

On Mon, Mar 14, 2011 at 10:31 AM, Ishwar  wrote:

&gt; Hi Sean,
&gt;
&gt; Thanks for the quick response. I'll use load-balancers to distribute the
&gt; load.
&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt;2. My familiarity with erlang and Javascript is minimal. Would somebody
&gt; answer if the following things are doable/advisable to do?
&gt; &gt;&gt; a. Most of the processes I want to run on the data are in python and
&gt; php. Is it possible to call these processes from erlang/javascript?
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;It is not currently, but we are looking into the feasibility of supporting
&gt; other languages. However, I might say that if you're already doing Python
&gt; and PHP, it would be worth your while (and not difficult) to learn
&gt; JavaScript.
&gt;
&gt; We already have a whole bunch of processing on the data written in Python
&gt; and PHP, and porting them to Javascript is (1) very tedious, and (2)
&gt; Javascript does not support the required functionality. For example, we do a
&gt; bunch of NLP analysis on the data.
&gt;
&gt; Given these, is it advisable if I expose these processes as webservices and
&gt; call them from javascript/erlang?
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; &gt; b. I've been looking for MapReduce tutorials for python client, but
&gt; couldn't find any. Can somebody point to a sample MapReduce from python
&gt; client, for example, to retrieve multiple records from Riak? (Given a set of
&gt; keys [1,2,3,4], retrieve the records for these from Riak using MapReduce).
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;I don't know of any, but we have a decent number of Pythonistas on the
&gt; list. Hopefully one of them can help you out.
&gt;
&gt; Pythonistas, where art thou? :)
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Regards,
&gt; Ishwar.
&gt;
&gt;

