---
title: "Re: What is the best way to model relationships in Riak from 1.0	forward?"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-09-28T11:27:37-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04905"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04903"
author_name: "Harshal Dhir"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-09-28T11:27:37-07:00
---

Hi Jeremiah,

Thanks for your quick response. But, we also want to do a query on the
bucket, so yes implementing links if you want to pull one object makes
sense, but if you want to do query. Only way to do this to use MapReduce.

Please correct me if I am wrong.


Harshal Dhir | Technical Architect

solutionset

P: 510-214-3519 Twitter: @harshaldhir

85 Second Street, San Francisco, CA 94105

Twitter: @harshaldhir MSN: hars...@solutionset.com Jabber:
harshal.d...@gmail.com
www.solutionset.com 

This message is intended for the addressee(s) only and may contain
confidential or privileged
information. Any use of this information by persons other than
addressee(s) is prohibited. If you
have received this message in error, please reply to the sender and delete
or destroy all copies.


On 9/28/11 11:17 AM, "Jeremiah Peschka"  wrote:

&gt;You can link walk without MapReduce - the RpbContent object returned by
&gt;the ProtocolBuffers API should include the immediate level of links.
&gt;Otherwise, many clients support using HTTP requests to perform link walks
&gt;of arbitrary depths.
&gt;
&gt;The bigger question is: what are you trying to accomplish?
&gt;
&gt;---
&gt;Jeremiah Peschka - Founder, Brent Ozar PLF, LLC
&gt;Microsoft SQL Server MVP
&gt;
&gt;On Sep 28, 2011, at 2:08 PM, Harshal Dhir wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hi folks,
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; We were just wondering what is the best possible way to model 1 ­ N
&gt;&gt;relationships in Riak. We know that there are links but the mapreduce is
&gt;&gt;too slow. So, we moved towards using RiakSearch but it seems that
&gt;&gt;modeling relationships and having lists in riak search KV object doesn't
&gt;&gt;quiet do the job.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; So, we were looking for some guidance on this front.
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Thanks
&gt;&gt; Harshal
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;
