---
title: "Re: Attempting to use secondary indexes"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-08-03T21:49:01-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04211"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04210"
author_name: "Jeremiah Peschka"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-08-03T21:49:01-07:00
---


I believe 1.0 is scheduled for November. 

---
Jeremiah Peschka
Founder, Brent Ozar PLF, LLC

On Aug 3, 2011, at 9:47 PM, Antonio Rohman Fernandez wrote:

&gt; Another question... the old problem of querying smaller buckets with 
&gt; MapReduce is resolved with secondary indexes?
&gt; following this pattern =&gt; curl 
&gt; http://127.0.0.1:8098/buckets/loot/index/category\\_bin/eq/armor i think Riak 
&gt; doesn't have to check all the buckets/keys in memory to match the one you 
&gt; look for as it happened on a MapReduce, right? so 
&gt; http://127.0.0.1:8098/buckets/rohman\\_messages/index/date\\_int/eq/20110801 
&gt; would give me all messages from Rohman ( in a personalized bucket ) for the 
&gt; day 1st of August of 2011 in a much faster way, right?
&gt; thanks
&gt; 
&gt; Rohman
&gt; 
&gt; On Thu, 04 Aug 2011 12:38:17 +0800, Antonio Rohman Fernandez wrote:
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; seeing OSCON's PDF... when will we be able to have Riak 1.0 with secondary 
&gt;&gt; indexes out? This is an improvement that can help me pretty well out on my 
&gt;&gt; project. Any ETA?
&gt;&gt; thanks
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Rohman
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On Wed, 3 Aug 2011 22:02:53 -0600, Kelly McLaughlin wrote:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Craig,
&gt;&gt; The default backend is bit cask and if you want to use the indexes you'll 
&gt;&gt; need to look in etc/app.config in the release directory and change the value 
&gt;&gt; for the storage\\_backend setting to riak\\_kv\\_index\\_backend instead of 
&gt;&gt; riak\\_kv\\_bitcask\\_backend. I suspect that's the problem. Cheers.
&gt;&gt; Kelly
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On Aug 3, 2011, at 9:42 PM, Craig Muth wrote:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; I'm running the code example from 
&gt;&gt; http://rusty.basho.com.s3.amazonaws.com/Presentations/2011-OSCONData-Portland.pdf
&gt;&gt; This succeeds:
&gt;&gt; curl \\
&gt;&gt; -X PUT \\
&gt;&gt; -d "OPAQUE\\_VALUE" \\
&gt;&gt; -H "x-riak-index-category\\_bin: armor" \\
&gt;&gt; -H "x-riak-index-price\\_int: 400" \\
&gt;&gt; http://127.0.0.1:8098/buckets/loot/keys/gauntlet24
&gt;&gt; This verifies it's getting there:
&gt;&gt; curl http://127.0.0.1:8098/riak/loot/gauntlet24
&gt;&gt; =&gt; OPAQUE\\_VALUE
&gt;&gt; However, this finds nothing:
&gt;&gt; curl http://127.0.0.1:8098/buckets/loot/index/category\\_bin/eq/armor
&gt;&gt; =&gt; {"keys":[]}
&gt;&gt; Whereas in the presentation it says it should return {"keys":["gauntlet24"]}
&gt;&gt; Any ideas? Just grabbed the latest from github master.
&gt;&gt; --Craig
&gt;&gt; -- 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;  Antonio Rohman Fernandez
&gt;&gt; CEO, Founder & Lead Engineer
&gt;&gt; roh...@mahalostudio.com Projects
&gt;&gt; MaruBatsu.es
&gt;&gt; PupCloud.com
&gt;&gt; Wedding Album
&gt; -- 
&gt; 
&gt; Antonio Rohman Fernandez
&gt; CEO, Founder & Lead Engineer
&gt; roh...@mahalostudio.com Projects
&gt; MaruBatsu.es
&gt; PupCloud.com
&gt; Wedding Album
