---
title: "Re: Throughput of read operations"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-08-12T08:37:14-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04363"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04362"
author_name: "Maria Neise"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-08-12T08:37:14-07:00
---


I ran it on one day (on a sunday) but each workload 4 or 5 times and
my hard drive had 150GB.
So it could be Amazons fault? :)

Cheers,
Maria

On 12 August 2011 16:50, Jeremiah Peschka  wrote:
&gt; One question that pops into my mind is are these numbers averages over 3 or 5 
&gt; runs or is this a single run?
&gt;
&gt; In my experience with EC2, I've run into I/O inconsistencies when I'm using 
&gt; anything less than 1TB drives and a large instance. There's a lot of 
&gt; potential for a noisy neighbor to steal I/O or CPU, or memory on the host OS 
&gt; which will put pressure on all other guests.
&gt; ---
&gt; Jeremiah Peschka - Founder, Brent Ozar PLF, LLC
&gt; Microsoft SQL Server MVP
&gt;
&gt; On Aug 12, 2011, at 2:23 AM, Maria Neise wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; Hey,
&gt;&gt; I am doing some benchmarks with Riak and set up a cluster with 6
&gt;&gt; server using Amazon EC2. On each server I have GB of data. I am using
&gt;&gt; Bitcask as backend and  the Java-API for my client. I have some
&gt;&gt; workloads with different proportion of operations, for example insert,
&gt;&gt; read and update. I started a workload with 95% read and 5% update and
&gt;&gt; achieved a throughput of 1207 operations/second. When I tried out
&gt;&gt; another workload with 100% read I only got 228 ops/sec. But I thought
&gt;&gt; Riak would be faster with reads than with updates. I would appreciate
&gt;&gt; if you could give me a hint, why Riak achieves a higher throughput
&gt;&gt; when doing updates and inserts mixed with reads.
&gt;&gt; Thank you in advance.
&gt;&gt; Cheers,
&gt;&gt; Maria
&gt;
&gt;

