---
title: "Re: innostore questions"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-02-07T16:06:48-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg02218"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg02214"
author_name: "Jackson L"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-02-07T16:06:48-08:00
---


Thx David for the prompt and informative response.





\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
From: David Smith 
To: Jackson L 
Cc: riak-users@lists.basho.com
Sent: Mon, February 7, 2011 9:10:53 AM
Subject: Re: innostore questions

On Mon, Feb 7, 2011 at 7:00 AM, Jackson L  wrote:
&gt; 1) From the basho download page, http://downloads.basho.com/innostore/,
&gt; innostore is currently at release 1.0.2. Since innostore is an embedded
&gt; version of innodb, is there any correlation between the innostore release
&gt; and the real innodb release? Are the features available with innodb 1.0.2
&gt; available in innostore 1.0.2 or is there no relationship?

No relation, unfortunately.

&gt; 2) Related to the prior question is if there is no relationship, does
&gt; anyone know of any detail documentation besides the basho wiki that shows
&gt; all the supported features and/or parameters that each version of innostore
&gt; supports? For example, does innostore support the innodb parameters:

You can see the full set of config options on line 385 in this file:
https://github.com/basho/innostore/blob/master/src/innostore.erl

Not all the options are necessarily enabled/responsive to external
settings -- embedded inno is a bit of a finicky beast about that
stuff.

&gt;
&gt; a. file\\_per\\_table

The setting is available, but I believe embedded inno requires this
mode -- I've not tried changing it.

&gt; b. autoextend\\_increment
&gt;
&gt; c. autoinc\\_lock\\_mode

I've not tried either of these settings, but within the scope of Riak,
they would not really be that helpful (since everything stored is just
key/value).

&gt;
&gt; d. data\\_file\\_path

I've not tried this one -- typically we use data\\_home\\_dir and
log\\_group\\_home\\_dir to control where data/logs go.

&gt; 3) Is there a lot of write activity in the ring\\_state\\_dir? I am assuming
&gt; their isn't since the state of the node shouldn't change that frequently but
&gt; wanted a confirmation.

No, there should not be a lot of write activity in ring\\_state\\_dir.

D.



 \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

