---
title: "Re: Storing JS functions in bucket/keys"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-03-26T18:57:33-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07050"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg07049"
author_name: "Jonathan Langevin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-03-26T18:57:33-07:00
---


Missed that, thanks very much.

So it seems in that example, I would have an anonymous function stored in
myjs/mymap, correct?

Would it be possible to store a group of functions into a bucket,
structured similar to the Riak builtin js methods, that I could call from a
map phase w/ a custom function?

I know this would be simpler if the lib were simply included in Riak's js
includes for each node, but I'm trying to put together a function lib for a
client library that would ideally not require any server-side modification.
I have a group of functions that may cross reference each other, and while
some would be called directly for a map phase, others would be helpers for
custom map functions, so I'm attempting to achieve something similar to the
Riak built-in js accessibility, without server modification.

Thanks!

\\*
 
 Jonathan Langevin
Manager, Information Technology
Loom Inc.
Wilmington, NC: (910) 241-0433 - jlange...@loomlearning.com -
www.loomlearning.com - Skype: intel352
\\*


On Mon, Mar 26, 2012 at 5:04 PM, Russell Brown  wrote:

&gt; Hi Jonathan,
&gt;
&gt; On 26 Mar 2012, at 21:53, Jonathan Langevin wrote:
&gt;
&gt; It was mentioned in an old webinar recap, that custom JS functions could
&gt; be stored in Riak as a objects in a bucket, and then executed via mapreduce.
&gt; While this was mentioned as possible, no example was provided, and
&gt; Google is turning up nothing useful for me.
&gt;
&gt; Could someone please provide an example of how custom JS functions stored
&gt; in a Riak bucket could then be used against results of a map or reduce
&gt; phase?
&gt;
&gt; Recap article:
&gt;
&gt; http://basho.com/blog/technical/2010/07/27/webinar-recap---mapreduce-querying-in-riak/
&gt; (over halfway down, mentions that functions could be stored in bucket/key)
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; There is an example in the wiki documentation here
&gt; http://wiki.basho.com/MapReduce.html#Map, it describes the specification
&gt;
&gt; {"map":{"language":"javascript","bucket":"myjs","key":"mymap"}}
&gt;
&gt; You'd need to store an object who's value was a valid javascript phases
&gt; function at 'myjs'/'key'.
&gt;
&gt; Cheers
&gt;
&gt; Russell
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Thanks!
&gt;
&gt; 
&gt; \\* Jonathan Langevin
&gt; Manager, Information Technology
&gt; Loom Inc.
&gt; Wilmington, NC: (910) 241-0433 - jlange...@loomlearning.com -
&gt; www.loomlearning.com - Skype: intel352 \\*
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

