---
title: "Re: Map Function in Erlang with PBC"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-02-09T11:27:23-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg02253"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg02243"
author_name: "Ryan Maclear"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-02-09T11:27:23-08:00
---


Hi Kresten,

Thanks for the blog post and the explanation therein - it now makes much more 
sense to me. I don't necessarily want to put all my m/r functions in a module 
on the cluster, so I would need to pass them from a client node, but I wasn't 
too keen to follow the method where the code is interpreted upon calling apply. 
The method from TrapExit seems like a better option for me. 

Cheers,
Ryan



On 09 Feb 2011, at 4:42 PM, Kresten Krab Thorup wrote:

&gt; It looks like your problem is that the code is not on the server, so yes, ... 
&gt; I think that your guess is right. Here's a blg I wrote a while back on this 
&gt; topic
&gt; 
&gt; http://www.javalimit.com/2010/05/passing-funs-to-other-erlang-nodes.html
&gt; 
&gt; ... which also describes why it works for the case where you enter the code 
&gt; in the shell; it creates an interpreted function structure which \\*is\\* usable 
&gt; across erlang nodes.
&gt; 
&gt; Kresten
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Feb 9, 2011, at 9:22 , Ryan Maclear wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; If I copy the function body, line for line into the erlang shell, replacing 
&gt; values as I go along, the code works fine, and I get results back correctly.
&gt; 
&gt; However, If I call the function, in the same shell, I get the following error:
&gt; 
&gt; {error,&lt;&lt;"{error,\\n {error,undef,\\n 
&gt; [{#Fun,\\n 
&gt; [{r\\_object,&lt;&lt;\\"family\\"&gt;&gt;,&lt;&lt;"...&gt;&gt;}
&gt; 
&gt; This is not what I expected to happen. Has this got something to do with the 
&gt; nature of the anonymous function, one being defined in the shell and the 
&gt; other in a module? I've seen this link:
&gt; 
&gt; 


\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

