---
title: "Re: riak_dt"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2013-01-28T07:29:44-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg09892"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg09888"
author_name: "Russell Brown"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2013-01-28T07:29:44-08:00
---


I just pushed an updated 'riak-dt' branch to the riak repo on github.

Just pull the branch and build and you should have a working riak\\_dt.

Let me know if you have any issues

Cheers

Russell

On 26 Jan 2013, at 10:54, Petter Egesund  wrote:

&gt; Great, thanks - I will stay tuned :-)
&gt; 
&gt; Petter
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; Fra: Russell Brown [russell.br...@me.com]
&gt; Sendt: 25. januar 2013 19:52
&gt; Til: Petter Egesund
&gt; Kopi: riak-users List
&gt; Emne: Re: riak\\_dt
&gt; 
&gt; Hi Petter,
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Hi
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; I would like to use Riak, but counters is a must in this project. They are 
&gt;&gt; so handy :-)
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; I tried to build the riak-dt, but the build-system seems broken. I get this 
&gt;&gt; when i do make devrel:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; ERROR: generate failed while processing /Users/petter/erlang/riak/rel: 
&gt;&gt; {'EXIT',{{badmatch,{error,"luke: : Missing application directory."}},
&gt;&gt; [{rebar\\_reltool,generate,2,[]},
&gt;&gt; {rebar\\_core,run\\_modules,4,[]},
&gt;&gt; {rebar\\_core,execute,5,[]},
&gt;&gt; {rebar\\_core,process\\_dir0,6,[]},
&gt;&gt; {rebar\\_core,process\\_dir,4,[]},
&gt;&gt; {rebar\\_core,process\\_commands,2,[]},
&gt;&gt; {rebar,main,1,[]},
&gt;&gt; {escript,run,2,[{file,"escript.erl"},{line,741}]}]}}
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Any clues?
&gt; 
&gt; I think the riak-dt branch of riak has got a bit stale and needs a rebase. 
&gt; I'll do that today and post back when I have it working.
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; The riak-dt does also seem a little bit forgotten - no commits in a couple 
&gt;&gt; of months. Is it still planned?
&gt; 
&gt; Riak\\_dt, or something like it \\_is\\_ still planned. We're working out how best 
&gt; to integrate CRDTs in general (and counters in particular) into Riak\\_kv. In 
&gt; the meantime I'll fix up that experimental branch.
&gt; 
&gt; Cheers
&gt; 
&gt; Russell
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Cheers,
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Petter
&gt; 
