---
title: "Re: Storing Sets in a new backend"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2010-12-21T19:26:31-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg01836"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg01834"
author_name: "Jeremiah Peschka"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2010-12-21T19:26:31-08:00
---


I'm interested to see how it turns out.

One question: Shouldn't you be able to determine equality from the vclocks?
Timestamps could run into issues if the clocks of different machines get out
of sync. They also don't allow for much granularity - there's always a
chance of collisions.

How would this be any different from doing the same thing with bitcask or
InnoDB? Is it just your use of mmap to save memory space as opposed to
bitcask reading keys into RAM?

Jeremiah Peschka

On Tue, Dec 21, 2010 at 8:02 PM, Anthony Molinaro &lt;
antho...@alumni.caltech.edu&gt; wrote:

&gt; Hi,
&gt;
&gt; Just wondering if anyone had an opinions on this idea?
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt;
&gt; -Anthony
&gt;
&gt; On Fri, Dec 17, 2010 at 03:20:58PM -0800, Anthony Molinaro wrote:
&gt; &gt; Hi,
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; I have a situation where I need to store sets of integers as
&gt; efficiently
&gt; &gt; as possible. In order to do so I was going to implement a custom backend
&gt; &gt; and alter the semantics of get/put/delete, such that
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; put (K, [{i,V}]) - insert one or more V into list at K
&gt; &gt; put (K, [{d,V}]) - delete one or more V from list at K
&gt; &gt; get (K) - returns list at K
&gt; &gt; delete (K) - delete entire list
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; I'll probably keep the lists in sorted order via insertion sort so that
&gt; &gt; a quorum read can easily determine equality.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; My backend would probably be a linked in driver which mmaps a file so
&gt; &gt; I can keep this stuff as tightly packed in memory as possible.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; We did something similar using just riak\\_core for a different system,
&gt; &gt; but for that system we had a custom thrift frontend and didn't adhere
&gt; &gt; to the riak\\_kv api.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; So I was wondering, what sort of issues might I see with this sort of
&gt; &gt; use of riak? Is there another way I'm missing which would allow me
&gt; &gt; to efficiently do this?
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; I expect in the end to have approximately 500 million lists of integers
&gt; &gt; with most in the ~10 integer range with a few up to the ~200 integer
&gt; &gt; range. Also, I'll probably have a timestamp associated with each
&gt; &gt; integer and want to use map-reduce to expire entries which are too old.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Anway, I realize this might be an odd usage, and I can always fallback
&gt; &gt; to what we did before which was a thrift server on top up riak\\_core with
&gt; &gt; a custom datastore, but I figured if I could use the same API as riak\\_kv
&gt; &gt; with a custom backend it might save me a little time.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; -Anthony
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; --
&gt; &gt; ------------------------------------------------------------------------
&gt; &gt; Anthony Molinaro 
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; ------------------------------------------------------------------------
&gt; Anthony Molinaro 
&gt;
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

