---
title: "Re: Python client performance issue"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-02-15T01:47:08-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg02319"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg02318"
author_name: "Nico Meyer"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-02-15T01:47:08-08:00
---


Hi Mike,

perhaps you can try to upgrade the protocol buffers library to at least
version 2.3.0. This is from the changelog for that version:

Python
 \\* 10-25 times faster than 2.2.0, still pure-Python.


Cheers,
Nico

Am Montag, den 14.02.2011, 19:35 -0500 schrieb Mike Stoddart:
&gt; Will do when I get time. Would the REST API be any faster?
&gt; 
&gt; Thanks
&gt; Mike
&gt; 
&gt; On Mon, Feb 14, 2011 at 7:01 PM, Thomas Burdick
&gt;  wrote:
&gt; &gt; I would highly recommend looking in to the cProfile and pstat module and
&gt; &gt; profile the code that is going slow. If your using the protocol buffer
&gt; &gt; client it could possibly be related to the fact that python protocol buffers
&gt; &gt; is extraordinarily slow and is well known to be slow. Profile until proven
&gt; &gt; guilty though.
&gt; &gt; Tom Burdick
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; On Mon, Feb 14, 2011 at 7:09 AM, Mike Stoddart  wrote:
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; I added some code to my system to test writing data into Riak. I'm
&gt; &gt;&gt; using the Python client library with protocol buffers. I'm writing a
&gt; &gt;&gt; snapshot of my current data, which is one json object containing on
&gt; &gt;&gt; average 60 individual json sub-objects. Each sub object contains about
&gt; &gt;&gt; 22 values.
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; # Archived entry. ts is a formatted timestamp.
&gt; &gt;&gt; entry = self.\\_bucket.new(ts, data=data)
&gt; &gt;&gt; entry.store()
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; # Now write the current entry.
&gt; &gt;&gt; entry = self.\\_bucket.new("current", data=data)
&gt; &gt;&gt; entry.store()
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; I'm writing the same data twice; the archived copy and the current
&gt; &gt;&gt; copy, which I can easily retrieve later. Performance is lower than
&gt; &gt;&gt; expected; top is showing a constant cpu usage of 10-12%.
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; I haven't decided to use Riak; this is to help me decide. But for now
&gt; &gt;&gt; are there any optimisations I can do here? A similiar test with
&gt; &gt;&gt; MongoDB shows a steady cpu usage of 1%. The cpu usages are for my
&gt; &gt;&gt; client, not Riak's own processes. The only differences in my test app
&gt; &gt;&gt; is the code that writes the data to the database. Otherwise all other
&gt; &gt;&gt; code is 100% the same between these two test apps.
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; Any suggestions appreciated.
&gt; &gt;&gt; Thanks
&gt; &gt;&gt; Mike
&gt; &gt;&gt;
&gt; &gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; &gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt;
&gt; 

