---
title: "Re: Riak for eCommerce"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-01-20T23:08:15-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg06349"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg06340"
author_name: "Ahmed Al-Saadi"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-01-20T23:08:15-08:00
---


Thanks for sharing, Daniel! 

-- 
Ahmed Al-Saadi
Sent with Sparrow (http://www.sparrowmailapp.com/?sig)


On Friday, January 20, 2012 at 1:46 PM, Daniel Widgren wrote:

&gt; We did one for long time ago with Riak at Uppsala University. Not sure
&gt; if that will help you in any way.
&gt; 
&gt; But you can look at our report, and see if you find anything.
&gt; 
&gt; http://www.it.uu.se/edu/course/homepage/projektDV/ht09/CC\\_product\\_report.pdf
&gt; 
&gt; / Daniel
&gt; 
&gt; 2012/1/20 Sean Cribbs :
&gt; &gt; Be aware that the client quorums are only a restriction on what the client
&gt; &gt; will wait for. It is entirely possible for a write to succeed in the larger
&gt; &gt; case, but not meet the W/DW quorum requirements. That is, the request may
&gt; &gt; "fail" but the write may still occur.
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; On Fri, Jan 20, 2012 at 10:01 AM, Dmitry Demeshchuk  &gt; (mailto:demeshc...@gmail.com)&gt;
&gt; &gt; wrote:
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; Generally, using eventually consistent databases for e-commerce sounds
&gt; &gt; &gt; too risky.
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; But I know that there was some e-commerce stealth startup using Riak
&gt; &gt; &gt; for their needs (probably not for all the data though, I don't know
&gt; &gt; &gt; any details). Amazon uses Dynamo, which is quite similar to Riak. So
&gt; &gt; &gt; NoSQL can be used in this niche somehow.
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; Also, intuitively, most of the consistency problems might be avoided
&gt; &gt; &gt; by setting all w/dw values to maximum (better set r to maximum too, of
&gt; &gt; &gt; course).
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; The hardest task I see here is to organize transactions for the cases
&gt; &gt; &gt; like "we remove a product from database and we should alter all the
&gt; &gt; &gt; orders that contain this product".
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; On Fri, Jan 20, 2012 at 5:43 PM, Ahmed Al-Saadi  &gt; &gt; (mailto:thaterlang...@gmail.com)&gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; wrote:
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; Hello:
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; After reviewing a few options in the NoSQL space, I am considering using
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; Riak for an e-commerce platform. I gather that atomicity (transactions)
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; is
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; not supported while durability can be enforced per request (using dw=1
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; or,
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; at least, w=?). In other words, for most non-critical
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; reads/writes, r/w can be optimized for availability while critical
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; writes
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; must be committed to disk (or to "enough" nodes?), sacrificing
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; availability
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; in the process.
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; Does this describe the state-of-affairs or am I missing something?
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; --
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; Ahmed Al-Saadi
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; Sent with Sparrow
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; --
&gt; &gt; &gt; Best regards,
&gt; &gt; &gt; Dmitry Demeshchuk
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; &gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
&gt; &gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; --
&gt; &gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt; &gt; Software Engineer
&gt; &gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; &gt; http://basho.com/
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; &gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; &gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
&gt; &gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com (mailto:riak-users@lists.basho.com)
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt; 
&gt; 


\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

