---
title: "Re: Riak vs riak_core"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-03-30T18:12:10-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg02810"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg02807"
author_name: "Mike Oxford"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-03-30T18:12:10-07:00
---


The weekly recap was just posted with a slide decks on riak\\_core. Excellent
timing!

Is the Dynamo stuff in the riak-kv layer, then?
Or is it still used for "workload distribution" somehow in riak\\_core?
Or is the Dynamo storage concept not used "at all" in the riak\\_core?

Thanks!
-mox


On Wed, Mar 30, 2011 at 6:00 PM, Justin Sheehy  wrote:

&gt; Hi, Mike.
&gt;
&gt; On Wed, Mar 30, 2011 at 5:46 PM, Mike Oxford  wrote:
&gt;
&gt; &gt; I thought I understood Riak, then I ran across the fact that riak\\_core
&gt; was
&gt; &gt; split out separately.
&gt; &gt; When would you use riak\\_core that you wouldn't use Riak?
&gt;
&gt; Good question.
&gt;
&gt; Riak Core is the distributed systems center that Riak is built around.
&gt; Riak Core is not a standalone database, and in fact by itself it
&gt; doesn't do data storage or even much of anything at all from the point
&gt; of view of a client application.
&gt;
&gt; You use Riak to store, query, and retrieve your data.
&gt;
&gt; You use Riak Core to build something shaped a bit like Riak.
&gt;
&gt; Another way of looking at this is that Riak Core is a bit more
&gt; abstract, providing mechanisms for techniques such as vector clocks,
&gt; gossip, and other useful parts of the servers in a robust and scalable
&gt; system. Riak, the database, builds on that core by adding a
&gt; client-facing storage and retrieval protocol, storage engines for
&gt; placing data on disk, and so on.
&gt;
&gt; I hope that this helps to clarify matters. If not, or even if you
&gt; just have additional questions, please ask.
&gt;
&gt; Best regards,
&gt;
&gt; -Justin
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

