---
title: "Re: atomically updating multiple keys"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-10-29T10:46:29-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05368"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg05366"
author_name: "Jeremiah Peschka"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-10-29T10:46:29-07:00
---


I'm just assuming that my implementation might be naive.

As far as the tedious label goes, as your application's functionality grows in 
complexity, you may find it tedious to manage the complexity of manually 
handling transactional rollback in a distributed system. 

Managing relationships using links has some maintenance overhead in Riak 
because of the nature of handling this sort of situation.

But, all in all, it's probably not terrible as long as you decrease the number 
of relationships in the application by saving related objects within the same 
collection.
---
Jeremiah Peschka - Founder, Brent Ozar PLF, LLC
Microsoft SQL Server MVP

On Oct 29, 2011, at 10:32 AM, Justin Karneges wrote:

&gt; On Saturday, October 29, 2011 08:42:52 AM Jeremiah Peschka wrote:
&gt;&gt; 1) Use an RDBMS. Since you're here, I'm guessing that you're already using
&gt;&gt; Riak or else that Riak has qualities that you want for your application.
&gt; 
&gt; Right. This is early on in the app's lifetime and the data storage is not 
&gt; terribly complicated. I just need some parent/child relationships and when I 
&gt; saw the Links feature I figured this was an expected usage of Riak.
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 2) As Alex suggests, you can implement this in your application.
&gt; 
&gt; Yes, this I am ready for. As I understand it, using Riak successfully 
&gt; generally means designing your application with its limitations in mind. So, 
&gt; let's go write some funky app code!
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; This could also be difficult: the application must be aware of activity going
&gt;&gt; on with objects in your database AND be able to roll them back. In
&gt;&gt; pseudocode you'd do this:
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; orig = Riak.get('whatevs')
&gt;&gt; child = new Child(orig)
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; if Riak.put(child)
&gt;&gt; if !Riak.link(orig, child)
&gt;&gt; Riak.delete(child)
&gt;&gt; // error up the stack
&gt;&gt; else
&gt;&gt; // we don't care, the child didn't save. error up the stack
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; This is probably naive and is definitely tedious, even if you do implement
&gt;&gt; your own application layer to handle read/write operations.
&gt; 
&gt; See, to me, this looks exactly like what you're supposed to do. How is it 
&gt; naive and tedious? I would assume that everyone writing a serious app with 
&gt; Riak has to do things like this.
&gt; 
&gt; Justin
&gt; 
&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com


\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

