---
title: "Re: CorrugatedIron v0.1.3 Released"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-09-30T11:13:08-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg04945"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg04943"
author_name: "Jeremiah Peschka"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-09-30T11:13:08-07:00
---


Looks like OJ has mostly finished up the work on that, anyway. We'll just need 
to integrate that back in to develop for the imminent 0.2.0 release.

In closing: I suspect that our use of .NET config files is not blocking the use 
of CorrugatedIron within Microsoft.
---
Jeremiah Peschka - Founder, Brent Ozar PLF, LLC
Microsoft SQL Server MVP

On Sep 30, 2011, at 1:45 PM, Jeremiah Peschka wrote:

&gt; Thanks. I can't take all the credit/blame - OJ Reeves has written massive 
&gt; amounts of code, too.
&gt; 
&gt; We're aware that many people like to complain about our use of config files. 
&gt; When you write a piece of software, you make the choice between shipping 
&gt; software or adding more features. We chose to ship CorrugatedIron and see 
&gt; then what people liked and what they didn't like.
&gt; 
&gt; People didn't like our use of .NET's crusty old config system that they even 
&gt; created a github issue about it: 
&gt; https://github.com/DistributedNonsense/CorrugatedIron/issues/4
&gt; 
&gt; We hear you and will be moving to get this out as soon as we can after we get 
&gt; the Riak 1.0 feature compatibility ironed out.
&gt; 
&gt; Is our use of .NET configuration files blocking adoption of CorrugatedIron in 
&gt; your organization?
&gt; ---
&gt; Jeremiah Peschka - Founder, Brent Ozar PLF, LLC
&gt; Microsoft SQL Server MVP
&gt; 
&gt; On Sep 30, 2011, at 1:40 PM, Kyle Quest wrote:
&gt; 
&gt;&gt; Jeremiah, really nice job on CorrugatedIron! Some of it is a bit too
&gt;&gt; over-engineered and more complicated than it has to be. For example,
&gt;&gt; you can't just create a RiakClient object and interact with Riak (like
&gt;&gt; you can do with the official Riak client libraries)... To create a
&gt;&gt; RiakClient (in CorrugatedIron) you need to have a RiakCluster object
&gt;&gt; to pass to the RiakClient object constructor. And you can't easily
&gt;&gt; create a RiakCluster object either. You can only create it from a
&gt;&gt; config section (there's no way to explicitly provide the config values
&gt;&gt; directly in the API). Not every app uses .NET app config files and
&gt;&gt; it's also not uncommon for the app config code to cause exceptions
&gt;&gt; because it can be brittle...
&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt; On Thu, Sep 22, 2011 at 3:33 PM, Jeremiah Peschka
&gt;&gt;  wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt; I just finished up v0.1.3 of CorrugatedIron, everyone's favorite .NET 4.0 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Riak client. There is no new functionality in this release, just a fix from 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Matthew Whitfield: 
&gt;&gt;&gt; https://github.com/DistributedNonsense/CorrugatedIron/issues/18
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Thanks Matt for helping us make CorrugatedIron better!
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Binaries have been pushed to NuGet 
&gt;&gt;&gt; (http://nuget.org/List/Packages/CorrugatedIron) and source is available on 
&gt;&gt;&gt; github 
&gt;&gt;&gt; (https://github.com/DistributedNonsense/CorrugatedIron/commit/e9c0af10465176f117bbbf04724087063f9b7fd2)
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Enjoy!
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; ---
&gt;&gt;&gt; Jeremiah Peschka - Founder, Brent Ozar PLF, LLC
&gt;&gt;&gt; Microsoft SQL Server MVP
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt;&gt;&gt; 
&gt; 
