---
title: "Riak newbie,	need to know if I can switch from Cassandra for a messageQueue For	Erlang"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-05-09T12:51:34-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07411"
author_name: "Morgan Segalis"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-05-09T12:51:34-07:00
---


Hi everyone !

I have followed with interest the riak evolution.

I have a chat server written in Erlang from scratch with my own protocol.
Right now I'm using MySQL in order to store Users credentials and friend list.

I'm using Cassandra via thrift to store message that an offline user has got, 
until the user retrieves it.

My Cassandra data model, is quite simple, a Column Family, each row is an user, 
each column is a message (title = timestamp for getting time ordered data, 
value = message).

The thing is, despite the fact that I'm happy with Cassandra performance and 
TimeToLive feature, I would like to avoid the hassle of thrift to update my 
code.

Since Riak is (As I have seen on multiple website) the closer thing to 
cassandra (but simpler).

However Riak paradigm seems to be different somehow, with bucket which I'm not 
yet familiar with.

Before getting to know Riak better I would like to have some expert opinion on 
the matter.

I need to do several things : 

- Store from 1 to X messages per registered user.
- Get the number of stored messages per user. (may be stored on a variable)
- retrieve all messages from an user at once.
- delete all messages from an user at once.
- delete all messages that are older than X months no matter the user

I would really love your opinion on, is Riak fit my needs, and if so, what 
would be the data model ?
Is it realistic to have a bucket per user ? 

Best regards,



\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

