---
title: "Re: Bucket properties \"reset\" to the default"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-05-19T10:45:25-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg07486"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg07485"
author_name: "Steve Warren"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-05-19T10:45:25-07:00
---


Ahh, perfect! Now I understand exactly what happened. :)

The one cumbersome/disturbing aspect I'm finding with this so far is that
if I want to have my "sessions" bucket targeted to a specific backend I
believe I have to set that property on each node individually and restart
the node. If I add a new node, I think I have to do this before the node
joins the cluster.

On Sat, May 19, 2012 at 10:38 AM, Sean Cribbs  wrote:

&gt; Steve,
&gt;
&gt; Depending on the platform you installed Riak on, the ring data might live
&gt; in '/var/lib/riak/ring' whereas your Bitcask K/V data will live in
&gt; '/var/lib/riak/bitcask' by default. On non-Linux systems, those directories
&gt; will be different.
&gt;
&gt; On Sat, May 19, 2012 at 1:32 PM, Steve Warren  wrote:
&gt;
&gt;&gt; I see, so I must have cleared the properties out somewhere along the way
&gt;&gt; (although I'm not sure what ring files are, or how I would clear them).
&gt;&gt; Thank you for the feedback, I will keep an eye on this to make sure I
&gt;&gt; understand it completely!
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; Cheers
&gt;&gt; Steve
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; On Sat, May 19, 2012 at 10:12 AM, Sean Cribbs  wrote:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Steve,
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; Any bucket properties you set via the client interfaces are stored in
&gt;&gt;&gt; the ring structure and should persist independent of any data in the
&gt;&gt;&gt; cluster. Be careful that when you are clearing session data that you are
&gt;&gt;&gt; not also clearing the ring files.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; On Sat, May 19, 2012 at 10:07 AM, Steve Warren wrote:
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Hi,
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; I have configured Riak to store sessions in a separate bitcask
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; backend which has an expiration set. What I observe though is that when all
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; sessions are expired (overnight), the properties I set on the bucket revert
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; to the default bucket properties. Is there a way to make these bucket
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; properties permanent without making them the default for the entire 
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; cluster?
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Regards
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users mailing list
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; riak-users@lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt;&gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt;&gt;&gt; Software Engineer
&gt;&gt;&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt;&gt;&gt; http://basho.com/
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; --
&gt; Sean Cribbs 
&gt; Software Engineer
&gt; Basho Technologies, Inc.
&gt; http://basho.com/
&gt;
&gt;
\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com

