---
title: "Re: Virual Node Abnormality"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-11-04T09:04:03-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg05442"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg05148"
author_name: "Mark Phillips"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-11-04T09:04:03-07:00
---


Hi Vicky,

Sorry for the late response here.

Bad news, good news, and better news ..

Bad - looks like you're hitting this issue bug -
https://issues.basho.com/show\\_bug.cgi?id=1250
Good - it was fixed in 1.0.1 [a] (and perhaps you've already upgraded)
Better - 1.0.2 will be out \\*very\\* soon (we are in the final testing
stages). You're probably best to hold tight for a bit and upgrade from
1.0.0 -&gt; 1.0.2

Mark

a - 
http://lists.basho.com/pipermail/riak-users\\_lists.basho.com/2011-October/006121.html


On Thu, Oct 13, 2011 at 7:36 AM, Vicky Khanna
 wrote:
&gt; Hi,
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; I am testing 1024 ring size 4 node riak system.
&gt;
&gt; I am facing a virtual Node abnormality in which only one node has the
&gt; following error while performing handsoff
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; =ERROR REPORT==== 13-Oct-2011::14:10:26 ===
&gt;
&gt; Failed to merge
&gt; ["/test/riak/bitcask/689360635576978622551152123244106150872866619392",
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; This is creating two file every 3 mins in the same folder. The file which is
&gt; created has a size 0 for both .data as well as for .hint.
&gt;
&gt; These files which get accumulated every 3 mins are increasing the total no
&gt; of open files by riak.
&gt;
&gt; So I have to unnecessary increase the ulimit to a very big no.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; ls -l of the riak data directory gives the size of abnormal virtual node to
&gt; be 954368 (4096\\*233 ) where as all 1023 virtual nodes have a folder size of
&gt; 4096.
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Please tell me if I can solve this problem by any means and if I have done
&gt; something wrong in configuring the system.
&gt;
&gt; Also if I m bound to have any data loss…???
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Thanks and Regards,
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; Vicky Khanna
&gt;
&gt;
&gt;
