---
title: "RE: Getting Error reading	/home/u1c332/riak-1.2.1/dev/dev1/etc/app.config"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2012-12-20T12:58:17-08:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg09656"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg09646"
author_name: "Chenini, Mohamed"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2012-12-20T12:58:17-08:00
---


Hi.

Indeed that was the issue. I deleted the file .erlang and I can now start the 
riak nodes.
The message " Running Erlang ok " was also coming from the .erlang file.

Thank you.


-Mohamed

-----Original Message-----
From: Bryan Fink [mailto:br...@basho.com] 
Sent: Thursday, December 20, 2012 9:57 AM
To: Chenini, Mohamed
Cc: riak-users; Evan Vigil-McClanahan
Subject: Re: Getting Error reading 
/home/u1c332/riak-1.2.1/dev/dev1/etc/app.config

On Wed, Dec 19, 2012 at 6:01 PM, Evan Vigil-McClanahan  
wrote:
&gt; For some reason your version of erlang is printing the string "Running
&gt; Erlang" every time it starts. It doesn't normally do this.
&gt;
&gt; I am not sure where this error is coming from, as it doesn't seem to 
&gt; be a normal part of starting erlang.
&gt;
&gt; On Wed, Dec 19, 2012 at 5:30 PM, Chenini, Mohamed  wrote:
&gt;&gt; I installed Erlang R15B03 and re-installed riak but I am still seeing 
&gt;&gt; the same error when I start a riak node:
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; ~/riak-1.2.1/dev&gt; dev1/bin/riak start Error reading 
&gt;&gt; /home/u1c332/riak-1.2.1/dev/dev1/etc/app.config
&gt;&gt; Running Erlang ok

Hi, Chenini. Do you happen to have a ".erlang" file in your home directory? I 
know there are some tutorials that have the reader create this file early on, 
but then quickly forget it. The content of that file is run every time the 
Erlang VM starts, and this has been known to cause problems with Riak startup.

http://erlang.org/doc/man/erl.html#configuration

-Bryan
====================
This email/fax message is for the sole use of the intended
recipient(s) and may contain confidential and privileged information.
Any unauthorized review, use, disclosure or distribution of this
email/fax is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient, please
destroy all paper and electronic copies of the original message.
