---
title: "Re: Riak Recap as a Blog (?)"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2011-06-06T19:55:02-07:00
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg03589"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg03575"
author_name: "Jonathan Langevin"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2011-06-06T19:55:02-07:00
---


+1 on blog.

Additionally, I agree with Keith about ability to search. While a mailing
list is great for being able to converse via email, it seems that quite alot
of valuable conversations and tips get "lost" due to how ML discussions are
archived (i.e. - the interface).

For instance, it would be nice to browse in a forum-style interface (instead
of having to dig through date-archived postings), and esp if the ability to
respond via web existed, that would be awesome.
Google Groups would be a good solution, as it seems to be pretty much a
forum interface to a mailing list. Only issue is I've seen spam quite often
in Google Groups, but I don't know if that's just due to lists not having
proper administrators (or some type of spam filter is not enabled).
\\*


Jonathan Langevin
Systems Administrator
Loom Inc.
Wilmington, NC: (910) 241-0433 - jlange...@loomlearning.com -
www.loomlearning.com - Skype: intel352
\\*


On Mon, Jun 6, 2011 at 10:32 AM, Keith Bennett &lt;
keith.benn...@lmnsolutions.com&gt; wrote:

&gt; Mark -
&gt;
&gt; I think that's a great idea. I'd go even further, and suggest that the
&gt; valuable information discussed on the mailing list be managed in a
&gt; searchable form, as is the case with Google or Yahoo Groups. (Is it
&gt; searchable now? I couldn't see how to search the entire archive for a
&gt; keyword.)
&gt;
&gt; This would be helpful for we users of riak, and even possibly for riak
&gt; developers, since finding more information might prevent people from asking
&gt; a question that has already been asked in the past, saving them time. In
&gt; this case, you might want to copy the Recap to a message on the mailing
&gt; list, so it's searchable there as well.
&gt;
&gt; Thanks,
&gt; Keith
&gt;
&gt;
&gt; On Jun 6, 2011, at 2:51 AM, Mark Phillips wrote:
&gt;
&gt; &gt; Hey All -
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Quick question: how would you feel if we turned the Riak Recap into a
&gt; blog?
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; I've spoken with various people in various channels about how to best
&gt; &gt; deliver the Recap, and while it's clear that it's a valuable tool for
&gt; &gt; the community, I'm not sure the Mailing List is still the best vehicle
&gt; &gt; through which to publish it.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Publishing it as a blog (perhaps at "recap.basho.com") makes a lot of
&gt; &gt; sense as it would enable people to consume it without having to sift
&gt; &gt; through the rest of the mailing list traffic (and I know there are
&gt; &gt; more than a few of you who are on this ML only for the Recaps). More
&gt; &gt; importantly, I think it would bring more new readers to the Recap (and
&gt; &gt; more users to Riak).
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; So, in the interest of convenience and expanding the size of the Riak
&gt; &gt; community, I think making it a blog might make sense. It would still
&gt; &gt; be written, published, and tweeted thrice weekly, just delivered to
&gt; &gt; you in your Reader, for example, instead of on the ML.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; As you all are the primary consumers of the Recap, I thought I would
&gt; &gt; gather some opinions before I did anything drastic. Anyone have
&gt; &gt; thoughts on this?
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; +/-1s, rants, and all other expressions of opinion are encouraged.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Thanks,
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Mark
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Community Manager
&gt; &gt; Basho Technologies
&gt; &gt; wiki.basho.com
&gt; &gt; twitter.com/pharkmillups
&gt; &gt;

